The Grub-street Journal — January 8th, 1730

Exported from Wikisource on January 22, 2026

Lightly corrected.

* * *

The Grub-street Journal.

* * *

To be continued Weekly.

* * *

Thursday, JANUARY 8. 1730.

* * *

The Introduction.

Dullness! whose good old cause I yet defend,

With whom my Muse began, with whom shall end!

For thee I dim these eyes and stuff this head

With all such reading as was never read. Dunciad. B. I.

* * *

Grub-street, Jan. 7. 1730.

THE best Things here below are liable to be corrupted, and the better Things are in their own Natures, the more mischievous are they if corrupted[1] Books are on all hands allowed to be of the greatest Benefit to Mankind: whence I infer, that a bad Book must be one of the greatest of Evils. Our Society has been always composed of such learned and worthy Members, as have produced the best of Books themselves, and done what in them lay to suppress the bad. This Procedure has drawn on them the Opposition of some Men, whose Malice infinitely surpasses their Ability: but after all the Pains they have taken, they have proved nothing, but that they themselves have neither the reasoning of Men of Sense, nor the Style of polite Men, nor the sincerity of honest Men, nor the humanity of Gentlemen, or Men of Letters. These Men (if I may so call them) whenever they have been desirous to run down any Book, as low, trivial, and contemptible, have bestowed on it the Epithet of Grub-street, as if it was a sufficient Note of Infamy to suppose it to come from this Place. But this Paper will abundantly convince the Publick of what Dignity, Excellence, and Use our Society is; and how mean and despicable our Adversaries are. The Reasons already laid down seem sufficient to shew, why this Paper ought now to be published: it will perhaps be more difficult to satisfy the Publick why something of this kind never came out before.

It is true indeed, that altho' this Society has subsisted many Years, yet they have never before published any thing as a Society. But if this be an Objection, it must hold as strong against other Societies of Men of Letters. The Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris never published any of their Memoirs till thirty Years ago; and the Royal Society of London have not published any History of themselves, except what was done by Dr. Sprat soon after their Institution. But that nothing be wanting, a learned Member is preparing an Account of the Antiquities of Grub-street, with it's History, continued down to the present Time. So that our Account in this Paper may begin at this Instant; and we may continue to give the Publick a weekly History of the most important of their Transactions.

In the pursuit of this Design, we shall relate their admissions of new Members, which are very frequent. For no sooner does any learned Gentleman publish a Work, which they approve of, but they immediately give him a Place among them. We shall also communicate an Account of such Books, as shall receive their Approbation. It may be objected perhaps, that this is already done in the New Memoirs of Literature. I answer; That Author, tho' he gives an Account of the Works of several of our Members, and is indeed one of them himself, yet omits a great Number of excellent Books; the Design of his Undertaking being chiefly to recommend those which are published for one Bookseller only. We shall also publish Dissertations, as the Society and the Composers of them shall give leave; and sometimes relate the learned Debates which happen among our Members on a great variety of Subjects. And as political Dissertations have been always the peculiar Province of this Society, care will be taken that their Journal may never be deficient in this particular. This Branch is committed to Mr. Quidnunc, a worthy old Citizen, who has sacrificed his own Advantage to that of the publick. This great Scholiast has undertaken to collect all the material Articles of News from the other Papers; to digest them into a proper Method, and illustrate them with critical Observations. He has likewise ingaged to publish several occasional Papers, relating to Murders, Apparitions, Prodigies, &c.

Mr. Quidnunc's constant Employment in the Service of the Society, obliges him to reside in their House; that he may always be in a readiness to make the most proper Use of any Intelligence which may be communicated. He is accompany'd, in his Residence, by Mr. Poppy, an excellent Poet; who will not only frequently entertain the Town with some of his Poems in this Paper; but is likewise ready to compose Panegyricks or Satyrs, Anagrams or Acrosticks, Copies of Verses from Friends of Authors, or annual Salutations from City Bell-men to their worthy Masters and Mistresses, at reasonable Rates.

I must not omit the mention of one very considerable Member, who bears the Title of Historian to the Society, Gyles Blunderbuss, Esq; The other Officers receive Salaries from the Society; but Squire Blunderbuss has generously declin'd the receiving of any of the publick Money; somebody having left him something to live on. We shall sometimes oblige the Publick with the Characters drawn by him of our deceased Members.

As for my self, the Care of publishing this Paper will lie on me. And tho' I shall have sufficient Matter from the Journals of the Society, to continue the Publication of it weekly; yet if any learned Persons will favour me with their Correspondence, their ingenious Communications shall be honourably taken notice of, by their Faithful Friend and Humble Servant,

BAVIUS.

↑ These Words are borrow'd from Mr. Dennis, in his Preface to The usefulness of the Stage.

* * *

Grub-street, Jan. 7. 1730.

OUR learned Secretary Mr. Bavius having given a sufficient Account of the general design of this Paper; I shall content my self with only saying a little about the Part I bear in it. The Method, in which I shall dispose the News, will be quite different from that used in the other Papers. They all, with great Impropriety, begin with the Foreign News and end with the Domestick. This is like travelling into Foreign Countries, before we have taken a Survey of our own. The disposition of the News is a Subject I have long thought of with great concern, and am mighty glad of this opportunity of giving the Publick a better Model. It must needs please every Body to see what has been doing for a whole Week, first in London, and in the Country, and at last Abroad. And besides I shall add the Author at the end of each Paragraph; that so the gentle Reader may know on what Authority he is to depend for the Truth or Probability of each Article. The first Place will be given to the Gazette; then the other Papers will be regarded according to their Seniority. And where any Paragraph needs an Explanation, I shall not fail to add a suitable Remark. I shall not detain the Reader any longer with Prefacing (a thing I am not at all fond of) but, after wishing him a happy New-Year, give him the best Entertainment that is in the Power of his Humble Servant,

JEFFERY QUIDNUNC.

* * *

LONDON, January 1.

The noted Roger Johnson, charged in Custody of the Keeper of Newgate, upon an Extent for the Sum of 800 l. due to the King for his running of Brandy, is making intercession to compound the said Debt in order to get his Liberty. St. James's Evening.

Capt. Gainer, who was Sub-Brigadier in the Third Troop of Life-Guards, succeeds Capt. Slater, as Brigadier in the said Troop. Ibid.

This Day at noon, there was a numerous appearance of Nobility and Persons of Distinction at St. James's, to compliment his Majesty on the New-Year; when a Song made on this Occasion by the Rev. Mr. Eusden, Poet Laureat, and set to Musick by Mr. Eccles, Master of the Band of Musick, was performed. Whitehall Evening.

The Mathematical Boys of Christ's Hospital were presented to his Majesty according to the annual Custom, and received his Majesty's usual Bounty. Ibid.

The St. James's Evening informs us, that they were carried in Hackney Coaches.

We hear, that an Ensign, a Serjeant, and a Drummer, of each Company of the First Regiment of Foot Guards, have Orders to go a Recruiting, in order to compleat every Company in the said Regiment 50 effective Men. Whitehall and London Evening.

Friday, Jan. 2.

The following Messengers are appointed to attend his Majesty in the Month of January, viz. Mr. William Ward, Mr. John Turner, sen. Mr. John Parry, and Mr. Valentine Randal. The two first are ordered to attend in the Guard-Chamber, from nine o' Clock in the Morning till his Majesty goes to Bed. Daily-Post Boy.

The Rev. Dr. Marshal, jun. is very ill, and is attended by three Physicians. Ibid.

The Commissioners of his Majesty's Navy have given Notice, that the two Months Pay in six, due to the Company of his Majesty's Ships undermention'd, viz. Anglesea and Experiment, will be paid on Monday the 12th Instant, at the Pay-Office in Broad-street. Ibid.

His Majesty has been pleased to order, that all the Officers lately reduc'd shall be provided for in the Regiments they respectively belong'd to, according to their Seniority, as Vacancies shall happen. Daily Post.

Saturday, Jan. 3.

The Right Hon. the Earl of Godolphin is building fine Stables for his running Horses on Hogmagog-Hill near New-Market, where Mr. Frampton's Stables formerly were kept for that Purpose. Fog's Journal.

Letters from the OLD HOUSE inform us, that the expected Comedy, call'd, The Humours of Oxford, has been rehearsed with great Applause, to a very small Audience. We are told, that it banters the deprav'd taste of the Age for Farce and Dumb-shew; and that among other Scenes, there will be one of Mount Parnassus; that Pegasus will be represented by an Ass, who will pop out at the top of it, and instruct the Director of the Pantomimes. But whether the Taste of the Town may not be too much vitiated to approve such Pleasantries, tho' never so judicious, may justly be made a Question. Weekly Medley.

Mr. Bavius thinks it strange, that a great Applause should proceed from a very small Audience, unless the Actors agreed, as usual, to clap one another.

Yesterday Morning dy'd at his House in St. James's Square, the Right Hon. David Earl of Portmore, Governor of Gibraltar: He is succeeded in Honour and Estate by his only Son Charles Viscount Milsingtown, Member of Parliament for Andover in Hunts; a young Gentleman remarkable for his Generosity, and punctuality in paying his Debts. It's to be observed, that his elder Brother, the late Lord Milsingtown (that dy'd Abroad) his Lady, and two of their Children, have all dy'd in about two Years. Universal Spectator.

The Courant of this Day informs us, that his Lordship is dangerously indisposed: But all the other Papers agree with the Author above-cited.

Yesterday was held a Board at the Admiralty, at which were present the Lord Torrington, Sir Charles Wager, and the Lord Archibald Hamilton; at which time Mr. John Webb, Boatswain of the Griffin Fire-ship, was made Boatswain of the Colchester Man of War, in the room of Mr. Jewell deceased. Daily Courant.

Yesterday was held a Board of Admiralty at the Admiralty Office, Whitehall, at which were present Sir Charles Wager, Sir John Norris, Lord Torrington, Lord Archibald Hamilton, and Sir William Young; when several disabled Sailors were minuted for Admittance into Greenwich Hospital. Post-Boy.

The same Evening, Orders were sent to the Horse-Guards for a Party of Horse to attend on his Royal Highness the Prince, who sets out this Morning with divers of the Nobility to take the Diversion of Shooting in Richmond New Park. Ibid.

Yesterday William Grimes was committed to Newgate by Sir William Billers, on the Oath of Thomas Cox, for robbing him on the Highway. Ibid.

The Countess Dowager of Westmoreland lies dangerously ill at her House in Clover street, Piccadilly. Post-Boy.

On Thursday last dy'd the Right Hon. the Earl of Nottingham, at his Seat at Burleigh on the Hill in the County of Rutland. He is succeeded in Honour and Estate by the Right Hon. the Lord Finch, Knight of the Shire for the County of Rutland. Ibid.

The Rev. Dr. Dobson, Warden of Winchester College, lies dangerously ill at his Apartment there. Ibid.

Yesterday Mr. Walker the Publisher, who was taken into Custody last Tuesday by Mr. Wiggs, Mr. Crew, and Mr. Hutchins, three of his Majesty's Messengers, by Virtue of his Grace the Duke of Newcastle's Warrant, for printing and publishing a Pamphlet, entitled, A Letter to a Member of Parliament in the North, &c. was admitted to Bail before Mr. Delafaye. Mrs. Mary Baker, who was taken into Custody at the same time for bringing the Copy to him, and Mr. du Place, a German Gentleman, who is supposed to be the Author of the said Pamphlet, and also taken into Custody last Tuesday, are continued in the Messenger's Custody in order for farther Examination. Ibid.

Yesterday began the General Quarter-sessions of the Peace for the Royalty of the Tower of London and the Liberties and Precincts thereof, at the Court-house on great Tower-hill, when Sir John Gonson, being in the Chair, gave a most incomparable, learned, and fine Charge to the Grand Jury. Daily Post.

The Morning-post calls Sir John's Charge Excellent, Learned, and Loyal. The Evening Post calls it an excellent Lecture and useful Charge.

Last Night the Rev. Dr. Dwight and his Wife were both interr'd at Fulham. By their Deaths about 6000 l. falls to John Dwight, Esq, their only Son. Ibid.

Eight Bells are making for Christ's Church, Spittlefields, by Mr. Phelps; the Tenor is to weigh 36 Hundred Weight. The Parish have, by voluntary Subscriptions, already rais'd 1200 l. to pay for the same.

The Distemper which was so general in London about two Months ago, is now become Universal in many parts of the Country, and much more fatal, particularly in Derbyshire, where two or three in a Family have dy'd suddenly, and many others have been sick all at once; and in the East-riding of Yorkshire, it has prevailed so much, that there are scarce any remaining in Health to nurse the Sick. Morning Post.

On Thursday in the Evening a Gentleman's Servant was attacked in the Fields, as he was going to Hackney, by three Foot-pads, who robbed him of fifteen Shillings, and used him in a barbarous Manner. Ibid.

On Thursday last the Marquifs d'Aix had a private Audience of Leave of his Royal Highness the Prince of Wales, to which he was introduced by Sir Clement Cottrell, Kt. Master of the Ceremonies. Gazette.

On Friday the Marquess d'Aix had a private Audience of Leave of his Royal Highness the Duke, of her Royal Highness the Princess Royal, and of their Royal Highness the Princesses Amelia, Caroline, Mary, and Louisa; to whom he was introduced by the Master of the Ceremonies. Ibid.

On Thursday Morning Money was sent down to Chatham and Sheerness, to pay his Majesty's Ships under-mentioned.

Guernsey, at Chatham.

Rose, to the 31st of October 1729, at Shereness. Evening Post.

On Monday the 12th of this Instant, the two Months Wages due in six, to the Companies of his Majesty's Ships Anglesea and Experiment, will be paid at the Pay-Office in Broad-street. Ibid.

Monday, Jan. 5.

On Thursday last James Ford was committed to the New Goal in Southwark by Justice Lade, for stabbing one John Bullin in the Throat with a Knife. Courant.

On Friday last the Keeper of the Poultry Compter receiv'd Advice, that the Swede, who was concerned in robbing and setting fire to the House of Dr. Douglas, and broke out of the aforesaid Compter, is taken and confined in one of the Goals in Cornwall, and a Copy of his Commitment was sent down thither, in order for his being brought up to London, to take his Trial at the Old Baily. Ibid.

Yesterday Morning a Fire broke out at a Barber's the corner of the Maze Gate in Tooley Street Southwark, but was soon extinguish'd by timely assistance. Ibid.

Yesterday Katherine Plumer, alias Buck, was committed to Newgate by Justice Newton, on the Oath of William Bailey, for picking his Pocket of a Broad-piece, three Guineas and a half, and some Silver. Ibid.

Yesterday their Majesties, the Prince of Wales, his Highness the Duke, the Princess Royal, and the Princesses Amelia, Carolina, Mary, and Louisa, appeared at the Court at St. James's in deep Mourning, on Account of the death of the Margravine-Dowager of Brandenburg, Sister-in-law to her Majesty; as did also a great Number of the Nobility and Gentry, and all the Servants above Stairs under the Lord Chamberlain, as likewise the Servants under the Lord Steward. The said Mourning is to be continued for six Weeks, and then the Court is to go into second Mourning for six Weeks more, on Account of the death of the said Princess of Anspach, Post-Boy.

Yesterday their Majesties, the Prince of Wales, and the three eldest Princesses, went to the Royal Chapel at St. James's, preceded by the Heralds and Pursuivants at Arms, and attended by a great Number of Nobility and Gentry; the Knights of the Garter, Thistle, and Bath, being in their Collars of S. S. The Right Hon. the Lord Viscount Torrington, Kt. of the Bath, carried the Sword of State to and from the Chappel before his Majesty, and the Rev. Dr. Byrch, Chancellor of Worcester, preached the Sermon. Ibid.

The same Day their Majesties, the Prince of Wales, the Princess Royal, and the Princesses Amelia, and Carolina, dined in Publick. His Grace the Duke of Hamilton waited on his Majesty, the Dutchess of Dorset carved, and waited on the Queen, and the Lord Marquiss of Carnarvon on the Prince of Wales. Ibid.

Also the fame Day the Rev. Dr. Dark, one of the Prebendaries of Winchester, preach'd before his Highness Prince William, Duke of Cumberland, and the Princesses Mary and Louisa, in his Highness's Apartment. Ibid.

Yesterday the Right Rev. Dr. Edmund Gibson, Lord Bishop of London, ordained five Priests at the Chappel Royal at St. James's. Ibid.

On Saturday last dy'd Major-General Wheeler at his House in Soho. Ibid.

On Friday Night last, the Right Hon. the Lord Limerick and his Lady, arriv'd here from Ireland, with a great Retinue at his House in Sherard Street, near Golden Square. Ibid.

Last Friday the Rev. Mr. Flood, who belonged to the Fleet Prison, dy'd suddenly at his Lodgings in the Liberty of the Fleet, where he had been a Prisoner several Years for Debt. Ibid.

'Tis said that Major-General Sabine will be made Governor of Gibraltar, in the room of the Earl of Portmore, deceased. Daily Post.

On Thursday Night last, between eleven and twelve, dy'd at his Seat at Burleigh on the Hill in Rutlandshire, the Right Hon. Daniel Finch, Earl of Winchelsea and Nottingham, Viscount Maidstone, Baron Fitz-Herbert of Eastwell, Baron Finch of Daventry, Lord of the Royal Manor of Wye, and Bart. one of his Majesty's most Hon. Privy Council, and one of the Governors of the Charter-house. In the Reigns of King William and Queen Anne, he was Secretary of State; also one of the Commissioners to treat of an Union with Scotland; and upon the death of the said Queen was made choice of by the late King to be one of the Lords Justices, till he arrived from Hanover, who after his Coronation made him President of the Council, and settled on him a Pension of 2500 l. per Annum. He married to his first Wife the Lady Essex Rich, Daughter and Co-Heir to Robert Earl of Warwick, by whom he had a Daughter named Mary, who was first married to William Savile, Marquess of Hallifax, and afterwards to John now Duke of Roxburgh: And by his 2d Wife Anne, only Daughter of Christopher Lord Viscount Hatton, he had five Sons and eight Daughters, of which Sons Daniel the eldest, who was a few Days ago married to the Lady Stances Fielding, succeeds him in Honour and Estate: He is Knight of the Shire in the present Parliament for the County of Rutland, and Comptroller of the Houshold. 2. William, lately Envoy Extraordinary to the States General, and Member for Cockermouth. 3 John, Member for Higham Ferrers, one of the King's Council at Law. 4 Henry, Member for Malton, and Receiver General of the Revenues in the Island of Minorca. 5. Edward, Member for the University of Cambridge, and Envoy to the Court of Sweden. Of the Daughters, the Lady Essex, who dy'd in 1721, was then the Wife of Sir Roger Mostyn, Bart. the Lady Charlotte is Wife to the present Duke of Somerset, and the Lady Mary unmarry'd; the rest dying young. Ibid.

Yesterday Morning the new-married Countess of Nottingham, together with her two Brothers-in-Law the Hon. William Finch, Esq; and Mr. Counsellor Finch, set out for Burleigh on the Hill in the County of Rutland, to attend the Funeral of their deceased Father the late Earl of Nottingham. Post Boy,

Tuesday, Jan. 6.

Yesterday Evening one of his Majesty's Messengers in Ordinary, arrived at his Grace the Duke of Newcastle's Office at Whitehal, from the Earl of Waldegrave at Vienna. Post Boy.

Yesterday Morning another of his Majesty's Messengers in Ordinary, was dispatched from the said Office with Letters for Stephen Poynts, Esqs at Paris. Ibid.

Last Night his Royal Highness the Prince of Wales was at the Theatre Royal in Lincoln's Inn Fields, and saw the Farce of two Acts, called the Country House, and the new Dramatick Entertainment, called Perseus and Andromeda, or the Spaniard outwitted. Ibid.

The Commissioners for victualling his Majesty's Navy, have made a Contract with the Masters of two Vessels, to transport 200 Tons of Provision; Bisket, Beef, and Pork, to Gibraltar, for the Garrison there. Ibid.

Last Sunday Night about eleven o' Clock, Mr. Stalton the Brewer, was attack'd near the end of Thrift-street, Soho, by a single Villain, who pull'd out a Bludgeon, and knock'd him down, and then rifled him of his Gold watch and Money, which Mr. Stalton believes to be upwards of 12 l. and then made off; and yesterday he was seized offering Mr. Stalton's Watch to pawn, and being carried before a Magistrate, was committed to New-Prison. Ibid.

A Commission is preparing to pass the Seals, impowering the Prince of Wales to nominate and appoint the several Officers that serve under his Royal Highness, both Domestick and others. Daily Post.

On Thursday last dy'd of a Fever, the Rev. Dr. Dobson, Warden of Winchester College. He will be succeeded by the Rev. Dr. Bigg, Warden of New Colledge in Oxford. Ibid.

Last Night was brought from Upholders Hall in Leadenhall-street, in great Solemnity, the Corpse of Thomas Preston, Esq; late Alderman of the Ward of Bridge, and interr'd in a Vault belonging to the Family, at St. Magnus the Martyr. The Pall was supported by the following Aldermen, viz. Sir Richard Brocas, Kt. Lord Mayor, Francis Child, Esq; Sir Edward Bellamy, Kt. Robert Alsop, Esq; John Barnard, Esq; Sir Thomas Lombe, Kt. attended by his Relations, the Deputy, and all the Common Councilmen of his Ward. Ibid.

The Morning Post says that the Pall-bearers were the Right Hon. the Lord Mayor, Sir Gilbert Heathcoat, Sir Edward Beecher, Sir John Williams, Alderman Child, and Alderman Barber. The London Evening agrees with the Daily Post.

The Prisoners in Chelmsford Goal, have passed the Holidays much to their Satisfaction, in the Company of a Merry Andrew, lately sent thither from Epping. Two Itinerant sons of Æsculapius met there, and had a fierce Contest who should have the Calves of Essex. One was mounted on his Stage in the usual Pomp, the other on a Tub near enough to disturb him. The facetious Mortal now with us, presuming his Words were to go for nothing, threatned the Tub-Doctor to revenge this Insult in another Place; upon which he swore the Peace against him. Upon spending the Garnish Money, Merry Andrew's Hearing came on, as is the Custom, and he was acquitted, there being no proof that he had sold him a Packet, and it being urged in his favour that his Pills were the only Weapons he carry'd about him to bring a Man in danger of his Life, Daily Journal.

This is a good admonition to those Sons of Æsculapius who wear Swords.

Complaints have been made to several of his Majesty's Justices of the Peace for the Liberty of Westminster, that many Boys and Apprentices have lost their Money by gaming at the Orange Burrows. Orders have been given to secure all such Persons as follow that trade of inticing Youth, and many have been taken up, pursuant to those Orders, and committed to Bridewell. Morning Post.

Her Majesty sent to buy the Collection of Plays Advertised in this Paper of last Week to be sold in Brook-street, Holbourn, and we hear was asked 100 l. for them. London Evening.

Wednesday, Jan. 7.

This Day is published the Treaty of Peace, Union, and mutual Defence, between the Crowns of Great-Britain, France, and Spain, concluded at Seville on the 9th of November, N. S. Printed for Mr. Buckley.

Yesterday Evening, between 4 and 5 o' Clock, a Coal Lighter, thro' the thickness of the Fog, ran against a Sculler Host near Whitehall Stairs, by which Accident a Woman Passenger was drowned, and the Waterman narrowly saved his Life. Daily Journal

Yesterday his Majesty went to the Royal Chappel at St. James's, and made his Offering of the three several Purses of Gold, Frankincence, and Myrrh, according to antient Custom; after which their Majesties, the Prince of Wales, and the three eldest Princesses dined in publick State in the great Ball-room, and at Night there was a Ball at Court. Morning Post.

* * *

FOREIGN-NEWS.

Dusseldorp, Jan. 3. N. S. Some days ago a gang of vagabonds set fire to a large country farm-house, belonging to the abbey of Gravenreindorp, by which the same, with a great quantity of corn, &c. were consumed. London Journal.

Hague, Jan 6. This day the States of the province of Holland came to a resolution, to ratify the act of accession to the treaty of Seville. The states of Gelderland were to meet on the 3d instant, and Overyssel the 4th, and 'tis expected they will pass the like resolution, and be followed therein very soon by Utrecht, Zealand, and Groningham. Ibid, and British Journal.

Versailles, Jan. 5. N.S. On the 1st instant, the princes and Princesses of the blood; and the lords and ladies of the court had the honour to compliment the King and Queen upon the new year. Daily Courant, and Daily Post.

The Provost des Merchands & Echevins, accompanied by the other officers of the Corps de Ville, paid their respects to their Majesties, Monseigneur the Dauphin, and Mes-Dames de France, upon that occasion. Daily Courant, and Daily Post Boy.

The Provost of the tradesmen and the Sherifs, &c. Daily Post.

The same day, the King, accompanied by the Duke of Orleans, the Count de Charolois, the Prince of Dombes, the Count of Eu, the Count de Toulouse, and the knights, commanders, and officers of the orders, who met in his Majesty's cabinet, went to the chappel of the castle. The King, before whom the 2 serjeants of the chamber carry'd their maces, was in the mantle and collar of the order; as were likewise the knights. His Majesty heard high mass celebrated by the Abbot Tesnieres, chaplain in ordinary to the chappel of musick, and sung to musick. The Queen, accompany'd by the Ladies of her court, heard the same mass in her gallery. ibid.

Jan. 3. N. S. Count Golofkin, ambassador extraordinary of the Czar, had a private audience of the King in his cabinet, and complimented his Majesty in the name of the Czar, upon the birth of the Dauphin. Ibid.

The Bishop of Limoges having desired the King to accept the resignation of his bishoprick, his Majesty has nominated the Abbot de Lisle du Gast to succeed him. ibid.

Paris, Jan. 7. N.S. The Bishop of Nismes is nominated deputy of the province of Languedoc, for the general assembly of the clergy that is to be held here in the month of May next. Daily Courant and Post.

The Count of Saxony has lately made a second proof of his galley, which succeeded perfectly well, having been rowed up the Seine from Pont de Seve to Pont Royal in half an hour, by four men only, who worked 38 oars by means of certain springs. That gentleman is gone to Rouen this week to try another experiment; namely, to get thither in 24 hours, and to come back again in 3 days, ibid. and Daily Post-Boy.

Messire Alexander Gaudechard, Count d'Esseville, lieutenant general of the King's armies, Great Cross of the royal and military order of S. Lewis, &c. died here the 1st instant, aged 74. ibid.

Messire John Baptist de Trouslet de Valincour, secretary to the navy, one of the 40 members of the French Academy, and honorary member of the Royal Academy of sciences, died here the 5th in the 77th year of his age.

On New-years day, Mons. de Peletier des Forts, comptroller general of the Finances, and Mons. d' Angervilliers, secretary at war, took their places in the council of state for the first time. ibid.

'Tis said the Abbot de Thesut left behind him above 800,000 livres, in ready money, besides a great deal of plate and fine furniture, ibid.

There was made for the Dauphin, on purpose to receive the compliments the new year in, a scarlet mantle fac'd with spanish gold point, with one Holy Ghost embroidered upon it. Daily Courant and Evening-Post.

The Whitehall-Evening has border'd instead of faced,

The Daily-post and St. James's Evening says it was embroider'd with point of Spain of gold, over which was likewise embroider'd a Holy Ghost. The London Evening says, bordered instead of embroidered.

The Daily Post-boy has it, a scarlet cloak trimm'd with gold spanish point.

Mons. Lescalopier, son to the intendant of Chalons, was last week admitted Advocate-general in the great council, in the room of Mons. d' Auby. Daily Courant and Post-Boy.

Mons. Turmemes de Montigny is continued in the place of keeper of the royal treasury, in the room of his brother deceas'd; and his nephew is made his assistant in that office, Daily Courant.

The Daily Post and London Evening, say, is continued in the office of Cashier of the royal treasure, which his late brother had, &c. The Daily Journal, is continued in the charge of keeping the royal treasure, which his late brother had, &c. But the Daily Post-Boy, says, he succeeds his late brother in the place of keeper of the royal treasury, &c. which I take to be the true reading

Monday, Jan. 5.

Yesterday arrived the Mail from Holland.

Frankfort, Jan. 4. N.S. The Imperial recruits are carried on with extraordinary success throughout the Empire; so that those design'd for the regiments in Naples and Sicily may be sent thither about six weeks hence. Daily Courant.

Hambourgh, Jan. 3. It is hardly to be believed what a number of young fellows list themselves in the Emperor's service. Several Jewish horse-coursers are likewise arrived here from Prague, who are furnished with imperial passports to buy up some thousands of horses in the dutchy of Holstein, for the train of artillery and other uses. Ibid.

Amsterdam, Jan. 6. The conferences at Brunswick are suspended; but will be renewed again soon after 12th Day. Ibid.

Jan. 9. On the 5th instant dy'd in the Waele-hook here, Elsje Pieters, Wid. of Reynier Bemelman, aged 111. Ibid.

The Daily Journal has Elsie instead of Elsje; and Reynter instead of, Reynier.

Brussels, Jan. 9. On the 5th instant arrived here the Count de Kunig gentleman of the bed-chamber to the Duke of Lorrain, and Capt. in the regiment of Hamilton, to compliment the Arch-dutchess our governess in the name of the Duke his master; for which purpose he was admitted to an audience the next day with great distinction. They write from Antwerp, that one of the greatest sharers in the Ostend Company sold out most of his stock last week; and that the Stock is thereupon fallen from 150 to 146. Post Boy.

Hanover, Jan. 4 Baron Stein, Minister of the D. of Wolfenbuttel at the congress of Brunswick, is gone from thence to make a report to the D. his master of the situation of affairs at that congress: And it is said, that as soon as he returns thither the conferences will begin again, to terminate the differences between this court and that of Berlin. Daily-Post.

Tuesday, Jan. 6.

Hague, Jan. 6. N.S. The ministers of the Princes arbitrators for accommodating the differences between the Kings of Great Britain and Prussia, have suspended their conferences, which seems to prognosticate an entire rupture of them. Baron Stein, Privy-counsellor to the D. of Wolfembutel, is indeed return'd to his matter from Hanover: But the minister of Saxe-Gotha, is not yet return'd from Berlin; which makes us apprehend his Prussian Majesty has no intention to come to an amicable agreement. This is moreover confirm'd by the clandestine augmentation of his troops; and particularly with 3000 dragoons, of which he has great need. Meanwhile, the new levies are continued in the Duchy of Cleves with as much vigour as ever; and tho' there are hardly people enow to till the land, the Prussian officers take all they can lay their hands on, that they think fit for the service. Post-Boy.

* * *

Prices of STOCKS Yesterday.

South Sea 105 1 half. Ditto Annuities 105 5 8ths. India 188 1 half. Bank 139 1 half. 3 per Cent. 97 1 fourth. African 47. York B. 20 1 8th. Royal Ex. 88. London Ass. 11 3 fourths. Mill. B. 106. Bank Cir. 1 half. prem. S. S. Bond, 4l. 4s. a 5. India Bond, 5l. 3s. a 4.

The excellent Ode for the New Year as publish'd in the Courant, will be printed in our next journal, with Remarks by Mr. Bavius.

LONDON: Printed and Sold by J. Roberts in Warwick-Lane, and at the Pamphlet-Shops of London and Westminster, also at the Pegasus (vulgarly called the Flying-horse) in Grubstreet.

(Price Two Pence)


