The Grub-street Journal — February 19th, 1730

Exported from Wikisource on May 11, 2026

* * *

Numb. VII.

The Grub-street Journal.

* * *

Thursday, FEBRUARY 19. 1730.

* * *

What Things are these, who would be Poets thought,

By Nature not inspir'd, nor Learning taught?D. of Buck. Essay on Poetry.

FROM the exact detail of the whole Fable of The Humours of Oxford, which, I don't doubt, has been, in proportion, as diverting to the candid Reader, as the Comedy itself, the admirable contrivance of the Plot is very evident: which is so well woven together, that the omission of one single circumstance would have made a breach in the texture, and spoil'd the continuity of the whole.

As to the three Unities of Time, Place, and Action, the Author has shewn the greatness of his Art in observing the two former, and that of his Genius in neglecting the last.

The Time allow'd by the Critics is carefully observ'd, the whole business being transacted within the compass of a natural day, or 24 hours. Nay, in this respect, the affair is conducted so artfully, that there is scarce any perceptible distinction betwixt day and night and it might as well be reduc'd within the space of a natural day, or 12 hours, did not Gainlove, in the beginning of Act V. say, Victoria has made her escape this morning. In the common way of thinking, one would have imagin'd, that she should rather have chosen the preceding night, in which, as Gainlove tells us, pag. 56. Lady Science was determined to have the marriage consummated with old Mudbrains: in which resolution she seems more confirm'd, pag. 60 (as indeed she had good reason) by the discovery which had been made of Gainlove, disguis'd like that intended Bridegroom. This must be allow'd by all unprejudic'd Persons to be an admiral contrivance, for a young Lady to run away in the morning, in order to avoid being married against her inclination the night before.

The unity of Place is as exactly observ'd as that of Time, the Scene of the whole transaction lying within the compass of the City of Oxford, either in Paradise Walks, or at a Tavern, or at Lady Science's lodgings; which may be all justly suppos'd to be very near one another.

With respect to the third Unity, that of Action, it is highly unreasonable to lay down strict rules, in order to confine the Genius of a Poet within such narrow bounds as are proper only for that of a Critic. It is said, that a Dramatic Writer, ought to aim at one great and compleat Action, to the promoting of which, every thing in the Play must be subservient. And Mr. Dryden, in his Essay on Dramatic Poetry, tells us, in the Person of Crites, that two Actions, equally laboured and driven on, would destroy the unity of the Poem, so that it would be no longer one Play, but two: and in the Person of Neander, that Coordination in a Play is as dangerous and unnatural, as in a State.

But with all due deference to the authority of this great Poet and Critic, I cannot see the reasonableness of what is here advanc'd. On the contrary, if one single Action, carried on by a good Under-plot, diverts the Audience, and shews the capacity of the Author; by parity of reason, must not two Actions, promoted by two Under-plots, shew a double capacity in the Author, and give the Audience a double diversion? And it can be no Just objection against such a Piece, that it is no longer one Play, but two, if two Plays thus united are really more entertaining, and consequently better than one.

As to the Political comparison, it is built upon a mistake. For Co-ordination in the State has been plainly Prov'd, by several able Writers, to be neither dangerous, nor unnatural. And the reverend and learned Dr. Croxall, in his late excellent Sermon before the House of Commons on Jan. 30. asserts it to be according to the nature of our Constitution.

Notwithstanding therefore any thing laid down by the Critics to the contrary, our Author has shewn his superior abilities in this excellent Comedy, by setting on foot two equal Actions, namely, the marriage of Trumore with Clarinda, and that of Gainlove and Victoria: which he has likewise promoted by two different Under-plots, carried on by Ape-all, Shamwell, Haughty, &c. That therefore which Conundrum (who being an excellent Punster declares himself Dramatis personæ, pag. 48.) says of Drams, pag. 50. may as justly be said of dramatic Entertainments, That if one glass of Cherry is good, so if one Action in a Play is good, two are rather better.

To the three unities before mentioned, some Critics add a fourth, the unity of Character. In respect of which, it has been objected, that the sudden conversion of Gainlove from libertinism, in the third Act, occasion'd by the repulse he met in attacking Victoria's honour, is very unnatural. But the learned Gentleman who made this objection, had forgotten the example of Terence, in the fifth Act of The Brothers: where Demea, from morose and covetous, turns complaisant and profuse, in an instant; and Micio, who always abhorred a married life, resolves on a sudden, at the request of his Brother, and of his Nephew, to marry an old Woman without a portion.

Having no room to inlarge upon the propriety of the Characters, each of which justly deserves a Dissertation as long as this, I shall proceed to the Thoughts, and the Language, the fineness of both which will likewise give us some insight into the former.

Ape-all, speaking of the Fellows of his College, says, pag. 6, 7. If one of us miss [prayers] but two mornings in a week, they'll set one a plaguy Greek Imposition to do―that ne'er a one of them can read when 'tis done.———And so, i'gad, I write it in French; for they don't know one from t'other. At pag. 17. he tells Kitty, I'll swear I could never write in my life. And at pag. 25. he says to Clarinda, My two first years I spent very vilely, I confess.―I had a good for nothing musty Fellow for a Tutor, who made me read Latin and Greek. Upon which it was observed, as a thing very surprising, that Ape-all's Tutor, who could not read Greek, and did not know Greek from French (for ne'er a one of the Fellows of his College had more learning) should make him read Latin and Greek for two years; and that this young Gentleman, who could never write in his life, should write a plaguy Greek Imposition in French. To this it was answered, that all this seeming inconsistency was clearly reconciled by two lines in pag. 18. where Ape-all proves himself a Wit by the shortness of his memory: I have a sad treacherous memory.———This Wit is a plaguy incroaching quality———it always kicks poor memory out of doors.

Trumore's character of Ape-all, pag. 5, 6. makes this still more consistent. To his being a Fool by birth, and Rake by education [at Oxford,] he has added a supplement of impudence, with an Appendix of modern foppery; and is come out a little Abridgment of the follies of the age, and a compleat Burlesque on Wit and Fashion. This compleat Burlesque, with both a Supplement, and an Appendix to it, making in all but a little Abridgment, is certainly a great curiosity.

But Gainlove, one of the fine Gentlemen in the Play, in his first soliloquy, at first coming on the Stage, presents us with a greater, and that in natural Philosophy. I generally find my philosophical Genius mounts in proportion to the weight of my Purse, as the Spirits in a Barometer do to that of the Air. This surprizing simile is alone a sufficient proof of the Author's philosophical Genius; the Spirits in a Barometer, which mount in proportion to the weight of the Air, being a Phænomenon not taken notice of, either in Mr. Boyle's Works, or in the Philosophical Transactions. This extraordinary knowledge is the more remarkable in this Gentleman here, because when he is interrogated by Lady Science, in the fourth Act, he does not know the Ptolemaic System from the Copernican.

But his knowledge in respect of himself, which is undoubtedly the best, appears from this first soliloquy to be very uncommon: for he knows his own Father; and that by a certain Criterion, the inheritance he injoys, With all due respect to my Mammy,———I do verily believe,———I am a Son of a Whore.———I was certainly begot by some Star-gazer, Poet, or Projector, by my inheriting their just nothing at all, pag. 1, 2. But he is mistaken, his Fortune mends; and without one shilling in his Pocket he courts a young Lady with 20000 l. and succeeds.

To these discoveries of Gainlove's, I shall add one of Clarinda's, who has found out a new way of being silent, which, I believe, her own Sex will highly approve, it laying no restraint at all upon the tongue. She tells Haughty, pag. 21. You are as silent as Pythagoras in effect,———because you never talk to be understood.

It being absolutely necessary to the success of any Play to animate it with lively images of Things, represented in the prurient stile, our Author has taken care not to omit the essential ornaments of double Entendres; which are generally put in the mouths of libertine Characters of both Sexes. But He produces them from those Characters from which one would lest expect them; and by that means has made them the more surprizing. For who is not surprized to hear the grave Lady Science and her Niece Clarinda, Ladies of strict virtue, talk in the following manner?

Lady Science, pag. 12. calls Clarinda empty Cilinder, and exhausted Receiver. She, to be even with her Aunt, tells her, pag. 13. Why truly, Aunt, there are some things in Natural Philosophy I should like well enough to understand; but you can't teach 'em to me.———I think your Experimental Philosophy is reckoned the best. She says to Trumore, p. 14. You think us Deities, and adore us in courtship; but as soon as you are let into the secret, &c. She tells Victoria, pag. 19, 20. If a Woman has the good breeding not to care an ace for her Husband; and the good contrivance to be mistress of his purse; she has both the power and opportunity of taking all the joys of life in a more unlimited degree, than when single. And that if she marry Ape-all, she may enjoy her tender inclinations unmolested. And afterwards, p. 38. The fear of dying is always worse than the thing itself;———but if he be too wild for you, marry him, marry him,———and you'll soon make him tame enough, I'll warrant you, Girl.

Lady Science to Gainlove, in disguise. Do you think it ever possible to find out the Longitude, Sir?———It is such a vast Profundity, that I fear it is beyond the reach of any man to fathom it. And pag. 59. Alas, she is a Girl,———a mere Girl;———however, I don't question, Sir, but you will use your utmost endeavours to make her more like her Mother. This she speaks to him, supposing him to be Mudbrains, an old Fellow of a College, whom she had never seen; and resolving to marry her Daughter, who had 20000 l. to him, that very night.

Mr. Ape-all's opinion of these Collegians is very different from that of her Ladyship; for he gives us this character of them, pag. 8. Your Fellows of Colleges are a parcel of sad, muzzy, humdrum, ignorant, old Caterpillars. And of Haughty in particular, he says, pag. 23. that he is a Fellow of a College; that's to say, a rude, hoggish, proud. pedantick, germandizing Drone;———a dreaming dull Sot that lives and rots, like a Frog in a ditch, and goes to the Devil at last, he scarce knows why.

Many more of these Elegancies might be mentioned; but from what has been already observ'd and quoted, I believe it is evident, how well the Author has executed his Design: which, he tells, his Patron was to rescue the Stage from those mean and unmanly Representations it has lately been employed in; to bring common sense once more in vogue; and to exhibit an Entertainment, which might be diverting and improving at the same time, without one sentence which can possibly be wrested into Indecency or Profaneness.

Bavius.

Grub-street, Feb. 18, 1730.

Having observed that some of our Readers have imagined, that Mr. Thompson is a Member of our Society; because an Example of the Figure Anticlimax was quoted from his Winter, in a Letter printed in our fifth journal: I think my self bound in Justice to our Society to declare, that he has not been admitted to that honour. It is not usual with us to receive any Gentleman into our number, on the merit of any performance, unless plura nitent in carmine. But on examining this Piece of Mr. Thompson, I do not find above one passage more, that deserves any applause; the greatest part of it being written after the Parnassian manner. I must likewise inform our Readers, that if they shall see here after a single passage quoted out of any Author, they are not immediately to suppose him to be one of our Members; or the whole work to be approved by us. In this will appear the great impartiality of our Society, that we shall not scruple to commend any extraordinary beauty, let the Enmity be ever so great between us and the Author. Thus our learned Scriblerus, in his Treatise περι βαθος has quoted several lines from an Author, whom he declares at the same time to be, otherwise, by no means of our rank: and draws his instance of the Macrology from another, whom he stiles at the same time one of our greatest Adversaries.

Bavius:

* * *

LONDON.

The following Letter coming too late to be inserted in our last Journal, it was thought proper to give it the first place in our domestic News.

To the Authors of the Grub-street Journal.

Norwich, Feb. 7, 1729-30.

Gentlemen,

Since you have undertaken to give impartially the News quoted from the Papers, without maiming the sense of the Authors, or pretending to make it your own; pray be not so wholly taken up with your London Brethren, but condescend to look upon the Country Performances, and do them equal Justice. 'Twill exceedingly oblige your Readers in this City, and contribute to the Esteem your Undertaking has acquired here. What may further prevail with you not to overlook these distant Authors, I can tell you they have been of longer standing than half your London News. The Norwich Gazette is Vol. 24. N° 1218. The other, is near of the same standing; but the Author has put no other Number but the Date of the Day, it probably being calculated only for the present time.

Norwich, Feb. 7. On Wednesday died Peter Attlesea, Esq; Alderman of West-wymer Ward, and yesterday came on the Election of an Alderman in his room. The Numbers were: for Mr. Robert Harvey, late Sheriff 387. For Mr. Richard Brown Coroner 345.

The Norwich Gazette says further, that Mr. Brown was Speaker of the Commons, and a very worthy loyal Gentleman; and that a Scrutiny is demanded in his favour. He adds, that Mr. Attesley the deceased Alderman was a very upright, worthy, and loyal Magistrate; and that his Death is much regretted by all honest Men. The Norwich Mercury takes no further notice of Mr. Attlesey, as he spells it, or Mr. Brown, but says, Mr. Harvey is a Merchant, and was a Lieutenant in their honourable Artillery Company in 1727. and adds, "Such is the Respect of the Free-men to that Gentleman, that altho' he was out of Town, the Majority (42) appear'd so considerable in his favour. Yet notwithstanding the great odds, a Scrutiny is demanded for Mr. Brown."

Thursday, Feb. 12.

Yesterday being Ash-wednesday, the Right Rev. Dr. Edm. Gibson, Lord Bishop of London, and Dean of the Chappel, preached before his Majesty, his royal Highness the Prince, and the three eldest Princesses at St. James's. Courant, Post Boy, Even. Post.

The Report of Mrs. Hosier's death was groundless, she being now in very good health. Daily Post, and 4 Even. Posts.

That great Politician, the Author of the Post-Man, happens to be mistaken in his conjecture concerning Dr. Trapp's Sermon on Jan. 30. That because it was moved in the Court of Aldermen to thank him, and [to desire him, I suppose it should be] to print the same, which was rejected, therefore the World probably would be deprived of the pleasure of that Gentleman's performance: for the Sermon is advertised in some of the Papers of this day.

Col. John Armstrong is set out with a Commission from his Majesty for the Court of France, in relation to the harbour of Dunkirk. D. Post, the Even. St. James's Evening.

We hear that Col. Armstrong is gone to Paris, to obtain leave from the French Court to make an inspection of the harbour of Dunkirk, and to be assisted by the Governor. Lond. Even.

I am inclined to think, that tho' the Gentlemen above-quoted might be let into the secret of the Colonel's Commission, yet that they had no Commission to publish it: and therefore believe, that no more is certain in relation to this affair, than only that of which the Daily Journal and Whitehall Evening modestly inform us, viz. Col. Armstrong imbarked on monday last at Dover for Dunkirk, by way of Calais.

Last night was interred at St. Margaret's Westminster, in one grave, Mr. Jackson and his Wife, who died at their house in King's-street., within a few hours of each other. D. Post, the Even. St. James's, and Lond. Even.

Mr. Jackson died on tuesday last, his Wife dying on sunday: they are to be interred to-morrow in one grave. Whitehall Even.

These persons were not interred till friday night. Courant, Feb. 14.

Last monday night Mr. Mark Crosse was stopp'd by two foot-pads in the road from Kentish Town to Hampstead, who demanded his money, which he refusing to deliver, one of them knock'd him down, and the other cut his throat with a razor; and then they rifled him of his watch, a guinea, and 15 s. in silver. But a Gentleman coming by on horseback soon after, and hearing Mr. Crosse groan, afforded him all the assistance he could, and got him to his house in Swallow-street St. Giles's; where he lived till yesterday morning, and then expired. Post Boy, the Even. St. James's, and Whitehall Even.

Yesterday morning about 10. one Jos. Horroy, formerly a midship-man, shot himself through the head, at his lodgings near the Seven Dials. It is remarkable, that half an hour before he did it, he eat his breakfast very heartily, and without any seeming uneasiness; and then said, he would go and write a letter to a Friend, which was found in a chair, and directed to his Brother. D. Post, St. James's, and Whitehall Even.

Friday, Feb. 13.

Yesterday the Rev. Dr. Trapp was chosen Tuesday Lecturer of the united Parishes of St. Lawrence Jury and St. Mary Magdalen Milk-street, in the room of Dr. Marshall, deceased. D. Post.

The Post Boy of Feb. 14. says, that by a general vestry the Church-wardens were appointed to ask him to accept it.

Last night, between 6 and 7, his Royal Highness the Prince, and the Princess Royal, attended by several Persons of Quality, went to his Grace the Duke of Kent's in St. James's square, where his new born Daughter was baptized by the name of Anna-Sophia; the Prince, Princess, and Countess of Portland standing sureties. Post Boy and Even. Post.

Saturday, Feb. 14.

Whitehall. On thursday last a Courier arrived with dispatches from Brigadier Dubourgay, his Majesty's Envoy extraordinary at the Court of Berlin, dated the 3/14 instant, giving an account, that they had advice that morning by express from Mittau in Courland, that the Czar was dead of the Small-pox; and that 6 of the principal Lords of Muscovy, with Prince Dolgorucky at their head, were arrived at Mittau, to invite the Dutchess Dowager of Courland, Niece to the Czar Peter I. to come and take upon her the administration of the Government. Gazette.

Yesterday at a Trial at the sittings in the King's-Bench, Westminster, between two Masters of Ships, Mr. Galpin, Plaintiff, and Mr. Kellham, Defendant, for the latter's having had criminal conversation with the former's Wife, the Jury gave the former 100 l. damage. Courant, Post Boy, Daily Post, and 4 Even. Posts.

The Court of Directors of the Bank have given notice, that the transfer Books will be shut from wednesday march 4, to thursday april 14. Post Boy.

On thursday morning the body of a male Infant, about 3 days old, was found thrown over the wall of St. Thomas's hospital, Southwark. It had a mark on one shoulder, as if it had been stabb'd. Post Boy, the Evening, and St. James's.

Last tuesday Mr. Barber, of Rohook in Sussex, was robb'd by a highwayman, near Godstone in Surrey, of 12 guineas and 18 s. who threw him a crown piece to help him on the road. Daily Journal, the Even. Whitehall, and London Even.

Last saturday night a Malt man of Deptford's horse fell with him near the corner of Greenwich Park Wall, on Blackheath, by which accident his collar bone was broken; upon which, seeing 2 men at some small distance, he called out for help. They got the horse off him, and robb'd him of his horse and money, to the value of 15 l. and then beat him so cruelly that his life is despaired of. The Even. and St. James's Evening Pasts.

Last wednesday night, a footboy, passing along Fleet-street, near Temple-bar, found a gold watch. The Evening Post.

Last saturday Mr. Edward Grant appear'd in the Court of King's-Bench, and was absolutely discharged from the Appeal of Will. Pyle; who will be severely prosecuted for unjustly bringing this frivolous and vexations Appeal; he having no right to lodge an Appeal, being neither heir at law, nor next of kin to the deceased. The Evening, and St. James's Evening Posts.

Monday, Feb. 16.

Yesterday the Right Rev. the Lord Bishop of Salisbury preach'd before their Majesties, the Prince, and the three eldest Princesses: and the Rev. Dr. Jones before Prince William, and the two youngest Princesses. Post Boy.

Last tuesday the Rev. Dr. Tyrwhit, one of his Majesty's Chaplains, and Son-in-Law to the Lord Bishop of London, minister of the Parishes of St. James's, Kensington, &c kissed his Majesty's hand for the place of one of the Prebendaries of Windsor, vacant by the death of Dr. Marshal. Ibid.

The Board of Works have received Orders to prepare a private walk in the upper St. James's Park, for the Queen and the rest of the royal Family to divert themselves in the spring. Daily Post.

On thursday last died at Blackheath, near Greenwich, the Relict of the late Admiral Holier, who recover'd the Admiral's estate at Maidstone Assizes some time since, by proving herself to be married to him. Craftsman.

This Lady, who has been so often mentioned in the News Papers, sometimes as alive, and sometimes as dead, is, I believe, neither; there never having been any such person in the world, according to the best Information I can get. There is, indeed, one Mrs. Diana Pritchard, who lay in Newgate, and the King's-bench, for a debt of 30 l. almost seven years; and was set at liberty under that name, by a late Act of Grace; who laid claim to the Admiral's estate, as his Widow, and got a verdict in favour of her marriage at the Maidstone Assizes about two years ago. But the Heir at Law to the estate in Land, is in possession of it all; and the Heir to the personal Estate is pursuing his claim in Doctors Commons, where the Lady is likewise proving her marriage. The late Admiral's fine house at Blackheath is part of the personal Estate: of which, or of any other part of that estate, this Lady was never in possession; nor do I believe ever will be.

In the list of the Horse matches to be run at Newmarket, in March, April, and May. printed in the Morning Post, the most remarkable is, the Earl of Portmore's Gudgeon, against Sir Roger Williams's Whipper Snapper: which Sir Roger Williams, we hear, keeps a Coffee-house near St. James's.

Tuesday, Feb. 17.

On sunday last died the Rev. Dr. Bray, Rector of St. Botolph's Aldgate. Courant.

Yesterday the Lord Viscount Hereford took the Oaths and his Seat in Parliament, being the first time of his being there since his present Majesty's accession to the Throne. Ibid.

On friday last came on the election for Ailsbury in Bucks, in the room of Philip Lloyd, Esq; whose Seat became vacant by accepting the Place of Equerry to the King, when Richard Ingoldsby, of Woldridge, near Ailsbury, Esq; was elected by a considerable Majority, against Mr. Lloyd. D. Post For Tho. Ingoldsby, Esq; 186. For Philip Lloyd, Esq; 154. D. Journ.

Yesterday morning, as the Speaker of the House of Commons was passing through Westminster-Hall, the Crowd being very great about the Court of Common-Pleas, a Fellow was ordered into Custody for rudely pressing on him, and tearing his gown. D. Post.

Yesterday between 9 and 10 in the forenoon came on before the Lord Chief Justice Eyre, in the Court of Common-Pleas, Westminster, the great Tryal between the Lord Abergavenny, Plaintiff, and Richard Lyddell, Esq; Defendant, for the latter's having had criminal conversation with the late Wife of the said Nobleman. There were nine Witnesses to prove the Fact: and the Defendant called four noble Peers to his general character. The Hearing lasted many hours; and the Jury (of which Mr. Lloyd, Brewer, of Hungerford-market, was Foreman) brought in a verdict of 10,000 l. damages for the Plaintiff. D. Post, the Even. and Lond. Even. Posts.

His Lordship [the Lord Chief Justice] summed up the several depositions, and delivered it [them] very pathetically to the Jury, who withdrew for about half an hour. Post Boy.

The Action was laid for 50,000 l. The Council for the Plaintiff were Serjeant Cheshire, who opened the Cause, Mr. Staples and others. For the Defendant, Serjeant Skinner, and Hawkins, Mr. Reeves, Mr. Wills. Mr. Fazakerly, Mr. Vernon, Mr. Lacy, and one or two more. Morn. Post, St. James Even. Post. The Morning Post, by leaving out a cypher, has made a great mistake in the damages, putting 1000 l. for 10,000 l.

We hear that one Guest is taken into custody, for printing a Pamphlet intituled, Claudians Rutinus; or the Court Favourite's overthrow. The Even. Post.

Last Friday Catherine Pember, who was Last Sessions sentenced at the Old Bailey to be whipt at the Cart's Tail, was privately whipt by the Common Hangman in Newgate, and discharged. Even. Post.

The Lord Harrington is preparing to quit his Apartment at St. James's Palace; the same being appointed for his Royal Highness the Duke of Cumberland. The Even. St. James's, and Whitehall Evening Posts.

Last Friday night, between 6 and 7, Mr. Raynolds a Stay maker in Drury-lane was robb'd by 2 Foot-pads of 3 guineas and 11 s. and a pair of new Stays of 50 s. value, under the dead Wall near Chelsea. The Even. St. James's Even. Posts.

On Saturday night Last, 2 men by the help of a ladder, got into the one pair of Stair's Window of an Ale-house in Kentish Town, in which [Window] lay the Woman that kept it; and with pistols in their Hands, demanded the Keys of her drawers; which she surrendring, they took out upwards of 20 l. and went off with the same undiscovered. The Even. and Whitehall Even. Posts.

One John Taylor was lately committed to goal by Sir Chases Farnaby, &c. and is to be tried at the next Assizes at Rochester, for the Murther of John Waters about 17 years ago in the parish of Rutherfield in Kent. Four Evening Posts.

The Irish Parliament is adjourned from the 10th to the 24th instant.

Wednesday, Feb. 18.

We hear the right hon. the Lord Harrington received orders yesterday to go with an important Commission to the Court of France; and that his Lordship will set out accordingly on Friday next. Post-Boy.

Yesterday Mr. Serjeant Ruby made his report of the Convicts of the Last Sessions to his Majesty in Council, when John Everet, William Westwood, and Henry Knowland, for Robberies on the Highway; and Williamson Goodburn, for a House-robbery, were ordered for Execution. D. Post.

Dublin, Feb. 3. On saturday Last three of the Rioters were taken by a Party of the standing Army, and committed to Newgate. Courant, Feb. 12.

Londonderry, Jan. 30. The Rev. Dr. Dav. Jenkins died bout three weeks ago, and is succeeded in his two livings of Strabane and Urny, worth 500 l. per Ann. by the Rev. Mr. Robert Downs, Son to the Bishop of Derry.

The reverend and very worthy Mr. John Nicholson, Rector of Donaghmore, a living worth 600 l. per annum died lately. The Presentation is in the Reverend Mr. Dugget, Nephew to the late Archbishop of Dublin; who, tho' he has a Brother-in-Law, Mr. Strachan, in this Diocese, yet enquired for the worthiest Clergyman in the same, to give the living to, which is fallen upon Dr. Ward. A rare and worthy example, to prefer the honour and service of God to interest of his Family. Flying Post, Feb. 12.

Dublin, Jan. 31. Wednesday night last, a Company of idle Fellows drinking at Mr. Rose's at the Bristol in Crane-lane, and breeding a riot, were desired, with much intreaty, to desist; but growing thereon so outragious, as to threaten the life of Mr. Rose and his Wife, he took down one of his pistols, and as they were breaking up his house, shot one of them into the body, and wounded him so, that he died soon after. 'Tis said, that the Fellow who was killed, was one of a wicked Gang, who (illegible text) the Streets in the night, to rob and abuse Passengers; some of whom were lately beginning the trade of maiming those unfortunate People, who shall [should] be so unhappy as to fall into their power. Ibid.

Dublin, Feb. 9. "Richard Buller, Esq; of Garryhundon stands Candidate for Knight of the Shire of Catherlogh, in the room of Jeffery Paul, Esq; deceased.

Edinburgh, Feb. 9. "By the Commissioners and Trustees for improving the Fisheries and Manufactures in Scotland, notice is given, that the Prizes upon linnen Cloth are to be gained this year, upon the following sizes of Cloth, viz. upon the best Piece at and above a 1600 for 50 shillings, being the first Prize; upon the best Piece at 12, and below a 1600 for 30 shillings, or the second Prize; and at a 9, and below a 1200, for 20 shillings, or the third Prize; and that the Weaver of the Piece that shall gain the first Prize is to have a 1600 weaving Reed, of the second a 1200 Reed; and of the third Prize a 900 Reed, and a Shuttle for each Reed.

Feb. 10. "Yesterday the Lords Justiciary pronounced sentence of death upon Pratts, the Butcher in Alloa, for killing a Baker there; and appointed the 18th of March next for his execution.

Feb. 12. "Mr. Fidler, one of the Clerks of the Customs, is made General Inspector of the Custom Officers in the room of Mr. Dark, deceased.

"Newcastle upon Tine, Feb. 13. Since the 6th arrived the Michael, John Standridge, laden with Goods from London.

"Gloucester, Feb. 16. On Wednesday Last John Niblett the Monmouth Carrier was robb'd on Cirencester Fauss, near the 5 mile house, of a guinea and half, by one Highwayman mounted on a good Mare; when he rid off damned him, and bid him sue the Hundred."

This Gentleman, it is thought, might formerly belong to the Law, by his taking his Fee, before he gave his Advice.

Prices of Corn at Reading and Basingstoke.

At Reading At Basingstoke.

Wheat p. Load 7 l. to 9 l. 5 s. 6 l. to 8 l. 10 s.

Barl. p. Quar. 19 s. to 1 l. 2 s. 17 s. to 1 l.

Oats 17 s. 16 s. to 19 s. 6 d.

Horse beans 1 l. 6 s. 1 l. 8 s.

Hag peas 1 l. 7 s. 1 l. 7 s. 6 d.

White Peas 1 l. 12 s.

The Letter relating to the Latin Epitaph, and the Translations of it, printed in the Vth and VIth Journals, has been received: and the Gentleman who wrote it is desired to read them both over again carefully, and then, it is thought he will not require an Explanation. At present he does not seem to understand the design of this Paper in general, or of those two numbers in particular. To endeavour to explain that which needs no explication, as Commentators frequently do, is only to obscure it.

* * *

FOREIGN NEWS.

Thursday, Feb. 12.

This day we had a Mail from France.

Paris, Feb. 18. N.S. On the 10th of this month the Dauphin cut two teeth, and the next day a third, without being in the least indisposed, which is very extraordinary in a Child of his age. Evening Post.

The 11th instant, the French Academy elected M. Delafaye, Secretary of the King's Cabinet, to fill the place vacant by the death of M. de Valincour. Whitehall Even.

Friday, Feb. 13.

Paris, Feb. 15. N.S. There is published here a Translation of Mr. Pope's Essay upon Criticism, by the Abbé du Resnel, a Canon of T. James de l'Hospital, dedicated to the Duke of Orleans; they are very fond of it in the Academy, and the book sells well, which is all the account we shall give of it.

Saturday, Feb. 14.

Hague, Feb. 14. N.S. Some days ago Count Sinzendorf, Envoy extraordinary to his Imperial Majesty at this place, sent an express to his Court, with advice of their High Mightinesses Accession to the Treaty of Seville. He has since had several Conferences with their High Mightinesses Deputies for foreign Affairs upon that Subject; in one of which he told them, he could assure them the Emperor would never accede to that Treaty upon the Terms it now stands. Post Boy.

This day we had a Mail from Holland.

Vienna, Feb. 8. N.S. The troops designed for Italy are divided into three bodies; one of which is to march in a few days, the rest wait for fresh Orders. Orders have been sent to the Viceroy of Naples, immediately to bring into the royal Chest the Arrears of the Subsidies due to the Government, that the money may be employ'd to answer the present demands. Yesterday a Courier was dispatch'd to Count Kinski, the Emperor's Ambassador at Paris; at the same time another Courier set out for London, who is to take Berlin in his way. The Marquis de Velasco, who is here on the part of the Grand Duke of Tuscany, hath already had several Conferences with the Minister of the Emperor. We are assured, that this Minister hath represented to the Imperial Court the mischievous Consequences which will probably happen, if the Resolution which has been taken of sending so great a number of troops into Italy should be put in execution. To which, 'tis said, he had for answer, that the present Conjuncture required, that there should be in that Country a body of Imperial troops in condition to act in case of need, but that those troops should not enter into the Dominions of the Grand Duke, but on an indispensable necessity. Whitehall Even.

Monday, Feb. 16.

Castelbanco, Jan. 26. N.S. Proper measures are taking at this Court (Spain) not to be at a stand, in case any powers should take upon them to oppose the execution of the design of introducing the Infante Don Carlos into Italy, with a number of Spanish Troops. We are assured the Ships that are equipping at Cadiz, and other ports of this Monarchy, will be divided into two Squadrons; one of which is to go before, with 6000 Spaniards, to take possession of the places of Tuscany and Parma; while the other is getting ready to follow with a great number of men, in case the said places shall refuse entrance to the Spanish Garrisons: and in order hereunto, most of our Troops are drawing towards Catalonia. Courant.

Hamburgh, Feb. 17. N.S. This day M. Botticher, Minister of Russia, received an express from Moscow, with advice, that the Czar, his Master, died there of the Small-pox, in the night between the 29th and 30th past, N.S. That Prince fell sick the 17th, upon his return from the Chace; upon which occasion, his marriage, that had been fixed for the 22d of that month, was put off. The Pustules came out well till the 26th, and even began to die away, so that in the judgment of the Physicians, his Majesty was out of danger. But the next day he grew worse, and died upon the 29th. The Senate and States of the Empire, being assembled immediately after the Czar's death, they unanimously resolved to proclaim the Dutchess-Dowager of Courland, Empress of all Russia; and nominated Prince Dolgorucki, Father of the espoused Princess, to carry that news to the Dutchess-Dowager at Mittau; and to intreat her to go and take possession of the Crown. Ibid.

Mittau, Feb. 6. N.S. Prince Dolgorucki, accompanied by three other Muscovite Princes, and a Lieutenant of the Guards, arrived here last night in six days from Moscow, with advice, that the Czar was dead of the Small-pox; and that the Senate and all the Grandees of the Russian Empire had proclaimed the Dutchess Dowager of Courland, Empress and Sovereign of all Russia; whereupon that Princess has resolved to set out for Moscow tomorrow. Post Boy, and D. Post.

The new Empress is named Anna Ivanowna, Daughter of Alexiowitz, half Brother to Peter Ivan (with whom he reigned jointly from 1682 to 1688) and was born Anno 1693. D. Journal.

Tuesday, Feb. 17.

Vienna, Feb. 8. The Troops designed to march into Italy, are divided into three Bodies. The first will set forward in a few days; but the two other Bodies are to wait for fresh Orders before they begin their march. Orders have been sent to the Viceroy of Naples, to get, as soon as possible, into the royal Treasury, the Arrears of the Subsidies due to the Government; that the money may be applied to supply the necessities of the present juncture. Yesterday a Courier was dispatch'd to Count Kinski, the Emperor's Ambassador at Paris, and at the same time another Courier was dispatched for London, who is to take his Route by the way of Berlin. The Marquis de Velasco, who is here on the part of the Great Duke of Tuscany, has aready had some Conferences with the Emperor's Ministers. It is assured, that this Minister has represented to the Imperial Court the fatal Consequences that may happen, if the Resolution that has been taken, of sending great number of Troops into Italy, should be put in execution. Whereupon it was said, answer was made him, that the present Circumstances require, that there should be in that Country a Body of Imperial Troops, in a condition to act, in case of need: but that those Troops should not enter the Dominions of the Great Duke unless there should be an indispensable necessity for it. D. Post.

Francfort, Feb. 15. Several expresses have gone through this Place, backwards and forwards, between Vienna and Mary Brussels within these few days. 'Tis reported here, that the Imperial Court has rejected all the proposals that have been made to them; and that they are determined to adhere inviolably to the terms of the quadruple Alliance. The raising of recruits for the Imperial Regiments in Naples and Sicily is carried on with such success through out the Empire, that the requisite number will soon be compleat. It is confidently affirmed, that beside the Imperial Forces designed for Italy, some Princes of the Empire have several thousand men ready to begin their march thither, upon the least notice from his Imperial Majesty. Even. Post, and Whitehall Even.

This day we had one Mail from France, and one from Flanders.

Paris, Feb. 22. We learn from Seville of the 2d instant, that Don Joseph Patinho continued to make all possible preparations for the Imbarkation of the Spanish Troops, which are to pass into Italy. Whitehall Even.

Wednesday, Feb. 18.

Paris, Feb. 22. All the Colonels have received orders to have their Regiments compleat, and to be at the head of them by the month of April. D. Journal.

* * *

The General Shipping LIST.

Feb. 8.

Ships Captains Arrived at From

Dainty Dorman Cowes Southampt.

Casket ——— ibid ibid

Katharine Boreman ibid Margate

Viana Merchant North ibid ibid

King David Dickins ibid London

Happy Grove Ware ibid Newhaven

Edward and Mary Fizar ibid London

Kerlew Turner ibid Newhaven

Providence Chase ibid London

Rich. & Hannah Watson ibid ibid

Princess of Brasil Veal ibid ibid

Tho. and Samuel King ibid ibid

Betty Gwynn ibid Shoreham

Feb. 9

Endeavour Taylor Falmouth Portsmouth

Lively Randal ibid ibid

Martha Howard ibid London

Isabella Dolorede ibid Havre

Labegona Del Mello ibid Amsterdam

Margaret Read ibid Bremen

Diana Barnard ibid Bourdeaux

Anne Gibbons ibid Bilboa

Feb. 10.

Sailed from For

Pearl Rogers Deal Barbadoes

Loyal Charles Brown ibid Jamaica

Crawley Clarke ibid ibid

Samuel Harper ibid Cadiz

Earl Waters ibid Dublin

King's Fisher Green ibid Leverpool

Allington Potts Dartmouth Barbadoes

Mary Anne Prouse ibid Bristol

Recovery Harrison ibid Gibraltar

St. Anthony ——— ibid Bourdeaux.

Feb. 11.

Arrived at From

Mary Lithered Portsmouth N. England

Townshend Sloop Kelham Grasend Rotterdam

Mary and Barbara Gibbs ibid Cadiz.

Lady Margaret Berens ibid Amsterdam

Speedwell Astey ibid Guernsey

Virgin Queen Arnold Bristol. S. Chriftoph.

Feb. 12.

Elisabeth Wenlock Dover Newcastle

Eagle Hicks ibid Rotterdam

Robert and Jane Richarson Dover Sunderland

Fortune James ibid ibid

Feb. 13.

Mary Powell Gravesend Hav. de Grace

Feb. 14.

Mary Lithered Deal N. England

Sea Nymph Flower ibid Antegoa

For

Happy Jane Etchingham ibid Seville

Adventure Read ibid Holland

Friends Adventure Menbie ibid Virginia

Britannic Peddie ibid Lisbon

Adder Harrington ibid France

Mary Jennings ibid Genoa

Nathaniel Hurle ibid Venice

The Loyal Jane Chandler Weymouth Jamaica

The Loyal Charles Brown ibid ibid

Earl of Chester Waters ibid Dublin

John and Lacy Ewin ibid Topsham

Success Dunkin ibid Bourdeaux

Aurora Perrisar ibid Lisbon

Hopewell Curtis ibid Cork

William and Jane James ibid Maryland

Diamond Row ibid South Barba.

William and Jane Jones ibid Maryland

Hazard Spoore ibid ibid

Caleb and John Preswick ibid ibid

From

Rising Sun ——— Bristol S. Christoph.

James River Merchant ibid South Carol.

Feb. 15.

Dolphin Pinnock Dover Sunderland

For

Rich. & Elisabeth Bradford S. Valery

Moore Moore ——— Dieppe

Friendship Saunders ——— Rye

Susannah Andrews ——— Dartmouth

Hope Garret ——— Oporto

John Smith ——— Jamaica

Prosperous Richardson ——— Gibraltar

Dragon Teveror ——— Jamaica

Thomasine Thorogood ——— Lisbon

Pearl Diamond ——— ———

Don Francisca Salter ——— ———

Endeavour Hartley ——— Malaga

Judith Holland ——— Barbadoes

Will. & Catherine Laurence ——— ———

William Turret ——— Maryland

Mansel Trevisa ——— Antegoa

Feb. 16.

Ruby Chambers ——— Maryland

Three Sisters Fletcher ——— Gibraltar

Casa Jell ——— Leghorn

William Allen ——— Oporto

Southampton Peirler ——— Jamaica

From

Betty Friend ——— Oporto

Arabella Hicks ——— Carolina

Margaret Herbury ——— Dublin for Rotterdam

For

Diligence Dogger Dickins Portsmouth South Carol.

Prices of Goods at Bear Key on Monday.

per Quarter

Wheat 24 to 30

Rye 15 to 16

Barley 12 to 15 6

Oats 8 to 15

Horse Beans 20 to 26

Hog Peas 18 to 22

Boiling Peas 24 to 26

Pale Malt 17 to 21

Brown Malt 17 to 20 6

Tares 24 to 30

Coals 23 s. to 23 s. 6 d. per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 20 s. to 38 s. per Hundred.

Hops 1729 35 s. to 55s per Hundred.

Rape Seed 14 l. to 15 l. per Last.

Whitehall Evening.

South-Sea 103 5 8ths. Annuities 105 3 4ths a 6. Bank 139 1 4th. India 180 3 4ths a 1. Three per Annuities 64 1 half. African 40. Royal Exchange Assurance 86 1 half. London Assurance 11 7 8ths. York Buildings 16 14th a 1 half. South Sea Bonds 3 l. 15 s. Pr. India Bonds 4 l. 15 s. Pr.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

Followed a Gentleman's Servant on Friday night last, about seven o'Clock, near Vauxhall Turnpike, a Liver and White pointing Bitch, with a small Snip on her Forehead, in which is a Scar: Whoever will bring the said Bitch to the Swan and Hoop Tavern, Lombard-street, near the Post-office, or to the Swan and Hoop without Moorgate, shall have a Guinea Reward, and no Questions asked.

N.B. No greater Reward will be given.

* * *

To be Lett,

A Large, dry, commodious Warehouse in Bartholomew Close, with the Convenience of a Cart's backing to the Door; it is sixteen Foot high, very fit for a Bookseller, Grocer, &c. Enquire at Mr. Knell's in Middle-street in Cloth-fair.

* * *

This Day is published,

A Sermon preached before the Right Hon. the Lord Mayor, Aldermen, and Citizens of London, on Friday Jan. 30, being the Fast-day for the execrable Murder of King Charles 1. By Joseph Trapp, D. D. Minister of Christ-church and St. Leonard's Foster-lane, London. Published at the Request of the Lord Mayor and the Sheriffs.

Printed for Lawton Gilliver at Homer's Head against St. Dunstan's Church, Fleet-street.

* * *

This Day is Publish'd,

THE Truth of the Christian Faith asserted, and proved not demonstrable by Natural, but by Supernatural Light only; agreeable to the Doctrine of the People call'd Quakers. In which the most prevalent Arguments of Atheists and Modern Deists are consider'd. By R. M. Address'd to his Brethren, the Clergy of the Church of England.

And of the Tree of Knowledge God said, In the Day thou eater thereof, thou shall surely die, Gen. 2. 17.

And Jesus said, Blessed art thou, Simon, for Flesh and Blood hath not revealed it to thee, but my Father which is in Heaven. Matt. xvi. 17.

Printed by J. Huggonson in Bartholomew-close. And Sold by J. Roberts at the Oxford Arms in Warwick-lane. (Price One Shilling.)

* * *

This Day are Publish'd,

Printed together in 8vo exactly from the Dublin Copies. Price 6 d.

A LIBEL on Dr. DELANY and a certain great Lord, by Dr. Sw———t, occasioned by a certain Epistle to ———. 2. An Epistle to his Excellency the Lord Carteret, by Dr. D———y. 3. An Epistle on an Epistle, or a Christmas Box for Dr. De———y. 4. Dr. Swift's Proposal for preventing the Children of poor People from being a Burden to their Parents or Country, and for making them beneficial to to their Country.

N.B. There is a spurious Edition of this Collection, Printed for A. Moore, first published under the Title of A Satire, &c. and since twice altered, in Imitation of the above, and tho' pretended to be a second Edition, contains the Error of the first, and is still incorrect. The Key of this Libel will be added to the next Piece of this Author which shall come over, and will be published by Capt. Gulliver.

Printed for Captain Gulliver near the Temple, and sold at the Pamphlet Shops.

Where may be had, the third Edition of

Cadenus and Vanissa, or the Judgment of Venus. A Poem. By Dr. Swift. Price 4 d.

* * *

For the Benefit of those Persons who are afflicted with the DROPSY,

Mrs. Eliz. Knell, who lives next Door to the Baker and Basket in Middle-street, Cloth-fair, near West-smithfield,

STILL continues to perform great Cures in the Dropsy, of both Sexes and all Ages.

Mrs. Lecount in Dr. Frier's Court in Little Britain, has lately received a Cure by the said Mrs. Knoll's excellent Remedy.

N. B. An Account may be had of several Cures at the Place aforesaid.

* * *

LONDON: Printed and Sold by J. Roberts in Warwick-Lane, and at the Pamphlet-Shops of London and Westminster and also at the Pegasus (vulgarly called the Flying-horse) in Grubstreet, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in. (Pirce Two Pence.)


