The Grub-street Journal — May 14th, 1730

Exported from Wikisource on May 12, 2026

Numb. 19.

The Grub-street Journal.

* * *

Thursday, MAY 14. 1730.

* * *

Maggots half-form'd in rhyme exactly meet,

And learn to crawl upon poetic feet.

Dunciad. B. I.

TWO remarkable occurrences having been the chief subject of conversation for these three or four months, have yielded a large field for the latent members of our Society to display their talents in prose and verse: one the case of an unfortunate Lady, and the other of an unfortunate Gentleman, as the Rev. Mr. Woolston is pleased to call him. On both which occasions, several anonymous Authors have published many mushroom pamphlets and poems, with no other view but to divert the Town, and thereby bring a little ready money into their own pockets. In these pieces they have treated the most heinous crimes, and most dismal misfortunes, in a very ludicrous manner; representing the one as a common piece of gallantry; making the other a subject of ridicule; and with respect to both, scandalously abusing both the living and the dead. For which, as a great Author writing to one of our Members well observes, they richly deserve not only to be satyrized, but to be whipp'd and pillory'd. The Epistle of Calista to Altamont is a flagrant instance of this sort of writings: which having been published at the latter end of the last year, escaped the particular examination, which would have been bestowed upon it, had it come within the time which these Memoirs are designed to comprehend: and therefore it has been only mentioned occasionally in two or three Journals.

There are others, who, tho' neither so needy, nor so malicious as the former, yet either out of an itch of rhyming, or a desire to see their works in print, or both, frequently compose short Copies on all occurrences, and send them to the publishers of News-papers. These verses are generally very low, frequently loose and immoral, and sometimes levelled against persons, who in no wise deserve to be treated in a satyrical manner. Upon one or other of these accounts, our Society has rejected several copies: tho' it will be always ready to publish such as are written with any good design, to promote the cause of learning and virtue, and to expose the patrons and propagators of nonsense, vice, and immorality.

It is now about three weeks ago, that Mr. Mævius received a copy of verses. sent by a Bookseller, as coming from a Fellow of All Souls: the latter part of which being incoherent and immoral, he sent only the 6 first lines with a little alteration to the Society; and substituted 10 of his own in the room of the rest: which were printed in our Journal, Numb. 15. But the very same Copy, which had been sent to Mr. Mævius, having been sent to the Authors of the Universal Spectator, was by them published in Numb. 81. Upon which Mr. Mævius having since made some short notes, and altered and inlarged his own Copy, layed them both before the Society, which has ordered them to be printed.

Verses on ——— ———

Young, thoughtless, gay, unfortunately fair,

Her pride to please, and pleasure all her care;

With too much kindness, and too little art,

Prone to indulge the dictates of her heart;

5Flatter'd by all, sollicited, admir'd,

By women envy'd, and by man desir'd;

At once from full prosperity she's torn,

By friends deserted, of defence forlorn,

Expos'd to talkers insult, want, and scorn.

10By ev'ry idle tongue her story told:

The novel of the young, and lecture of the old,

But let the Scoffer or the Prude relate

With rigour or despight her hapless fate;

Good nature still to kind compassion wrought

15 Shall weep the ruin, whilst it owns the fault.

For if her conduct, in some steps betray'd,

To virtuous rules too little rev'rence pay'd;

Yet dying still she shew'd, so dear her fame,

She could survive the guilt, tho' not the shame.

20Her honour dearer than her life she prov'd;

And dearer far than both the man she lov'd.

Ver. 8. If this be english, it is tautology.

Ver. 11, 12. Whatever is related with rigour is generally related with spite; and therefore I imagine that it should be rather with rigour and despite. But tho' the Prude may relate things with dispite; yet the scoffer will relate them rather with ridicule than rigour.

Ver. 16.-19. In these 4 lines a reason is assigned, why good-natured persons should compassionate the misfortune of this Lady, because, tho' her conduct payed too little reverence to virtuous rules, yet by her death she showed, that her sense of shame was much greater, then her sense of guilt. Now one would have imagined, that she had been a greater object of compassion, if the sense of her guilt, had been greater than her sense of shame; which I take to have been really the case. It is not at all to the advantage of any persons character, to apply to it those 2 lines of Sir John Denham, in his Cooper's-Hill,

Who fears not to do all, yet fears the name;

And free from conscience is a slave to fame.

But from this Gentleman's account it does not appear, that this Lady was even a slave to fame. For tho' he intimates in the 18th verse, that her fame was very dear to her; yet this is not very consistent with the character given at the beginning of the Copy, that pleasure was all her care; and that she had too much kindness, and too little art.

Ver. 20. A Lady who exposes her life, rather than lose her honour, may be justly said to prove her honour dearer than her life. But she who dies upon the discovery of the loss of her honour, cannot be said to have valued her honour more than her life, but to have had little value for either. A Lady's honour, according to this Gentleman's notion, is only her fame, or reputation; and does not consist in her being really chase, but in the opinion of the world, that she is so. But if it be taken even in this sence; yet it is not true, that she proved her honour to be dearer than her life; but only, that after the loss of the former, she did not think the latter worth preserving.

Ver. 21. But she still proved more than all this: for she proved the man she loved to be far dearer than both her honour and her life, and that by as odd a way as could have been imagined, even by dying. She had sufficiently proved him dearer than her honour by sacrificing it to him; and she might have continued to prove it by living, and conversing with him, in defiance of the censure of the word: but it seems, according to our Author, she chose rather to do it by dying; by which she might as well have proved her self to be alive.

And by dying in this manner, she likewise proved him dearer than her life. From whence one would have been apt to think, that her lover had been dead; and that since she could not injoy him in this world, she had endeavoured to join him in the other. But instead of that, she leaves him behind, and prefers death to the continuing here with him. So that these 2 last lines ought rather to run thus;

Her honour dearer than her life she prov'd,

And death far dearer than the man she lov'd.

The Gentleman who composed these verses seems to have been hurried on by fancy, and diverted with the jingling of the rhymes, without aiming at any particular end, or forming one regular thought in his mind: not unlike the horses in a team, which are driven on by the Carter, and being pleased with the music of the bells, neither mind the road in which they travel, nor know whither they are going. But had the thought been never so just, the conclusion is very immoral, and leaves a very scandalous reflection upon the dying Lady.

The proper end of writing on such occasions as this, is to suggest to persons such reflections upon the follies and misfortunes of others, as may be useful to secure them from exposing themselves to the like inconveniences and miseries. And this is what Mr. Mævius has aimed at in the following verses on the same subject.

 With native charms adorn'd, improv'd by art,

Whatever glads our eyes, or warms our heart;

'Midst the beau monde to view sublimely plac'd,

With splendid wealth, and noble titles grac'd;

Thus rais'd, thus blest, unfortunate by All.

With blessings curs'd, and only rais'd to fall:

At once from pleasure, wealth, and honour torn,

Expos'd to pain, necessity, and scorn.

 But when this melancholy tale is told

To the gay young, as lecture by the old;

Let both, to kind compassion mov'd, bemoan

Her sudden ruin, whilst her fault they own.

Let them recount what deep, what numerous sighs

Sprung from her breast, what torrents drown'd her eyes:

When pale, dishevell'd, prostrate on the floor,

Her fate she wail'd, and curs'd her natal hour:

'Twixt glimmering hope perplex'd, and dark despair,

Begg'd that the silent grave might end her care.

The grievous pangs of one such dismal day

Whose years of highest, sensual joys outweigh.

 But greater pains succeed, more pungent woe,

When words all fail'd, and tears no more could flow:

When grief unutterable, mute distress,

Which neither thought can form, nor words express,

Raging within, subdu'd the mortal part,

The vital current topp'd, and broke her heart.

 Lament the Fair by lawless love betray'd,

Who, from the path of honour having stray'd,

Could not, when once disclos'd her guilt and shame,

Survive the death of virtue, and of fame.

 O love! O friendship! turn your eyes this way:

This tragic bed, this scene of death survey:

This is your work. There lies the Fair ador'd:

The love for her, the friendship for her Lord,

Conspicuous shine alike: this glorious end

Of both, displays the Lover and the Friend.

 How virtuous is this age which dares to blame

The mulct impos'd on this destructive flame!

The laws of hospitality defy'd,

And all the stronger bands by friendship ty'd;

The nuptial vows dissolv'd, the marriage bed

Defil'd, the Spouse thro' shame and anguish dead.

For crimes like these is any mulct too high?

For less the Criminal deserves to die.

 Hie, Wretch, in exile from thy native shore,

Where British eyes may ne'er behold thee more.

But never hope to lose in distant climes

The sad remembrance of thy fatal crimes.

Think on them still; and strive by night, by day,

With flood of tears to wash thy guilt away.

Think not of pleasure, or of ease below:

Thy doom is sorrow here, or future woe.

The Controversy betwixt the Popeians and the Theobaldians being lately revived, by the publication of an Epistle to Mr. A. Pope; a short Extract of the Contents of the Preface has been sent to our Society by an unknown hand. This they have ordered to be published; declaring at the same time, to shew their impartiality, that if the Gentlemen concerned think fit to send an Answer, it shall be published in our next, if there appear no substantial reason to the contrary.

There having been last week published an Epistle to Mr. A. Pope, with a curious Preface, we here give the Reader a short Extract of the Contents of it.

SOME people have been very scurrilous against Mr. Pope, which I am sorry for; therefore I am more scurrilous. Some folks have been very dull, which I am sorry for, therefore I will shew I am duller. Some have said I could write nothing my self; therefore I have got some other Writers to do this. No body should abuse those that have not abused first; therefore having shewn in this Preface, that Dr. Arburthnot and Dr. Swift knew nothing of any intent to satyrize us, we abuse the said Gentlemen personally in the Poem. But we our selves requiring more respect than they, and being neither Scholars, Doctors, nor Divines, call our selves Gentlemen: which sure no body will deny, because one of us is the Son of an Alehouse-keeper, one the Son of a Foot-man, and one the Son of a ——— Sic subscribitur

Jemmy M———r Sm———

Bavius.

LONDON.

Thursday, May 7.

Yesterday the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty put the Gosport man of war, a 5th rate, in commission, and appointed Capt. Drake commander thereof, and Mr. Holban and Mr. Barnard Lieutenants. Courant, and Daily Post.

On tuesday in the evening a Committee of council was held at the Cockpit, Whitehall, on a plantation affair. Ibid.

Yesterday came on at the King's-bench bar, Westminster, before the Lord Chief Justice Raymond, the tryal of Tho. Nicholls, on an appeal brought by the widow Parry for the murder of her husband, near Bishop's-Stafford in Hertfordshire; when, after a full hearing, which held from ten o'clock in the morning till six in the evening, he was acquitted without the Jury's going out. He was last summer tried for the same fact at Hertford assizes, and was capitally convicted, but received her Majesty's most gracious pardon, during the time of her regency, when his Majesty was gone to visit his German dominions. Ibid.

The same day a woman threw her self into the water that runs near Story's gate in St. James's park, but was soon taken out. She seemed to be disordered in her senses. Ibid.

Yesterday the Right Hon. the Lord Harvey, eldest son to the Earl of Bristol, was sworn in Vice Chamberlain to his Majesty, in the room of the Right Hon. the Lord Harrington, and received his key accordingly. Post Boy.

On tuesday last Sir Charles Turner, Bar. kissed his Majesty's hand on his being appointed one of the tellers of the Exchequer, in the room of the Right Hon. the Lord William Pawlet, and yesterday was introduced in like manner to his Royal Highness the Prince of Wales; and we hear he will be sworn in this day. Ibid.

Yesterday the Right Hon. the Lord James Cavendish, brother to his Grace the Duke of Devonshire, mounted guard at St. James's, and relieved the Lord de la Ware, it being the first time since he has been presented to the Company of Col. Ridley, deceased, in the 3d Regiment of Guards; at which time Capt. Thomas Murray, brother to the Right Hon. the Earl of Dunmore, mounted as Captain-Lieutenant to the said Regiment. Ibid.

Yesterday notice was given to all Peers, Peeresses, and Privy Counsellors, that the Court will go out of mourning on sunday the 10th instant, on account of the death of the late Czar of Muscovy. Ibid.

Yesterday the printer of Fog's journal was taken up by two messengers, and carried to the secretary's office, for an article from Paris inserted in that paper of April 25. Ibid.

Last night the Corpse of Mrs. Arbuthnot, wife of Dr. Arbuthnot, was interr'd in a vault in St. James's Church. Ibid.

A new writ is ordered to be issued out for electing a Burgess to serve in this present parliament for the borough of Yarmouth, in the County of Norfolk, in the room of Horatio Walpole, Esq; who is made Cofferer of his Majesty's houshold. Also, a new writ for electing a burgess for the borough of Lynn Regis, in the said County, in the room of Sir Charles Turner, Knt. and Bar. who is made one of the tellers of the receipt of his Majesty's Exchequer. D. Post.

His excellency Horatio Walpole, Esq; hath appointed Wm. Sloper, Esq; to be his deputy, as Cofferer to his Majesty's houshold. Ibid.

Upon the Committee for inspecting into the state of the Goals of this Kingdoms making their report to the Hon. House of Commons, the following infamous and profligate persons were ordered nem. con. to be committed to Newgate, for a conspiracy to vilify and asperse the character of the Right Hon. Sir Robert Eyre, Knt. Lord Chief Justice of his Majesty's Court of Common-pleas, viz. John Campbel, Anne Jones, James Browne, Roger Johnson, Anne Johnson (wife of the said Roger Johnson) and Bel Anna Alinda Birnie. Ibid.

The Rev. Mr. Joseph Casberd, Minister of St. Thomas's Church, Southwark, and one of the Prebendaries of Bristol, is presented to the Rectory of Woodmanstern in the County of Surrey, vacant by the death of the Rev. Mr. Moss. Ibid.

Yesterday Isaac Broderick, the School-master in Ratcliff, lately committed to Newgate by Tho. Jones, Esq; for sodomitical practices, was carried from Newgate by a Habeas Corpus to Westminster, in order to be admitted to bail, but was brought back again. Ibid.

Yesterday morning died of the wound she received of her husband, a footman to Nobleman in Whitehall (as formerly mentioned) Mrs. White, who kept a Chandler's shop in the Hay-market. The husband is fled. Ibid.

At the assizes lately held at Brecknock, before the Hon. John Verney, Esq; one of the King's council, her Majesty's Attorney-General, and one of the Welch Judges, seven Malefactors received sentence of death for divers crimes; among whom were two barbarous Villains, for robbing passengers on Brecknock-bridge, and afterwards throwing them over the said bridge into the river; but one man, when they had pushed him over the fence, got fast hold of one of the Rogues by the hair of the head, and cry'd out, and did not let go his hold till several persons came there, who rescued him and apprehended them. Ibid.

The Hon. Edw. Walpole, Esq; second son of the Right Hon. Sir Robert Walpole, was on wednesday in last week unanimously chosen a representative in Parliament for Lostwithiel in Cornwal, in the room of Sir Edw. Knatchbull, deceased. D. Journal.

We hear that Mrs. Oldfield, the celebrated Comedian, hath obtained a reversionary grant of the Patent of Master of the Theatre-Royal in Drury-lane, granted by his Majesty King George the 1st, to the late Sir Richard Steele, Kt. for a certain term of years, which expires in 1733. St. James's Evening.

As Mrs. Oldfield is to be Master, our Author Should have informed us, who is to be Mistress.

On the 8th of April last, died at Market-Bosworth in Leicestershire, the rev. and learned Anthony Blackwal, A.M. justly celebrated for that excellent work intitled The sacred Classicks illustrated and defended: Or an Essay humbly offered towards proving the purity, property, and true eloquence of the writers of the New Testament, &c. Ibid.

We hear that Mr. Henry Raper, of Cooling in Yorkshire, formerly a Mercer on Ludgate-hill, and Mr. James Chambers, formerly a Banker in Fleet Street, will be put in nomination for Sheriffs of this City and County of Middlesex for the year ensuing. Whitehall Even.

This morning Mr. Alderman Parsons set out for France. Ibid.

We hear that General Ross is appointed Governor of Berwick and holy Island, in the room of Lieutenant General Sabine, now Governor of Gibraltar. Lond. Even.

Thomas Norton, Esq; Member of Parliament for Bury St Edmund's, Lieutenant-Governor of Chelsea hospital, in the room of Col Wyndham, deceased. Ibid.

Maurice Morgan, Esq; Member of Parliament for Yarmouth, in Hunts, Deputy-Governor of the Isle of White, in the room of his father, Anthony Morgan, Esq; deceased. Ibid.

Friday, May 8.

Yesterday the Right Hon. the Err of Plymouth was married at Whitehall Chappel to Miss Lewis, Daughter of Thomas Lewis, Esq; of Saborton, in the County of Southampton, and Member of Parliament for the borough of new Sarum; a fine young Lady, with 30,000l. down, and 5000l. per Ann. Courant.

This day Humphry Parsons, Esq; sets out from his house at St. Catharine's for the Court of France, where his Lady and Family have been some time; and we hear he takes with him five fine hunting horses, and six fox hounds, designed as a present to the K. of France. Ibid.

The Lady of his Excellency Horatio Walpole, Esq; who was brought to bed on sunday last of a Son, at her house in Dover-street, St. James's, lies dangerously ill, and is attended by two Physicians. Post Boy.

Yesterday Mr. Jacob Bive (introduced by the Right Hon. the Earl of Clinton, one of the Lords of his Majesty's Bed-chamber) presented to his Majesty his book intitled, The Layman's vindication of the Christian religion; and was graciously received: and afterwards was introduced to the Queen, by the Right Hon. the Earl of Grantham, Lord Chamberlain to her Majesty, to whom he presented his book, and was graciously received. Ibid.

Yesterday Richard Lloyd of Mabus, Esq; was voted duly elected representative in Parliament for the town of Cardigan, in the room of Francis Cornwallis, Esq; deceased. Daily Post.

Last wednesday the widow Hosier's bail having surrendered her before a judge, she was that evening brought to the Fleet-prison. Ibid.

I apprehend that there is no such person as the widow Hosier.

Yesterday one Benjamin Austin was committed, by the Right Hon. the Lord Mayor, to Wood-street Compter, for being concerned with one Johnson, who is now a prisoner in the Poultry Compter for debt, in procuring Ellis Pope and John Jay falsly to personate Thomas Pope and Martin Gee, and giving bail in their names to the high Court of Admiralty. The said Johnson was likewise charged with a warrant of detainer. Ibid.

Yesterday the printer and publisher of Fog's Journal, (who were taken into custody by two of his Majesty's Messengers on wednesday, for printing and publishing that paper of the 25th of April) were bailed before Charles Delasay, Esq; Daily Journal.

Last tuesday was opened in Westminster a fine new monument, erected to the memory of that celebrated Poet Will. Congreve, Esq; whereon is represented his Effigy in Bufto; and beneath, this very remarkable, tho' ill spelt inscription viz.

Mr. William Congreve.

Died Jan. 19, 1728, aged 46 and was buried near this place,

To whose most valuable memory this monument is set up by

Henrietta D. of Malborough as a mark how dearly

She remembers the happiness and honour she enjoyed in

The sincere friendship of so worthy and honest a man,

Whose virtue, Candour and wit gained him the love and

Esteem of the present Age, and whose writings will be the

Admiration of the future. Ibid.

Saturday, May 9.

We hear that a curious statue of his Royal Highness the Duke on Horse-back, is to be seen at the statuary's next to the turnpike at hyde-park corner, which is the only performance of its kind in Great Britain; the figure being of hard mettle at large as the life, and the model being taken from the very horse which was lately presented to him by the Right Hon. Sir Robert Walpole. Read's Journal.

Last tuesday Dr. Francis Clifton, of Chelsea, was introduced to his Royal Highness Prince Frederick, and kissed his hand upon being appointed Physician in ordinary to his Royal Highness. Lond. Journal.

Yesterday Mr. Serjeant Raby made his report to his Majesty of the ten Malefactors condemned last Sessions at the Old Baily, when the five following were ordered for execution, viz. Abraham Israel, for robbing his Master Mendez de Costa, jun. of money and jewels, to the value of above 300l. James Dalton (formerly an evidence against several Street-robbers) for a robbery on the highway; Hugh Norton for robbing the Bristol Mail; Thomas Williams, jun. convicted upon several indictments of Felony and Burglary; and David Aubert for Burglary; but Tho. Spouse, John Tizard, Margaret Walker, Geo. Downing and William Shrimpton, are reprieved. Cour.

The Post Boy has it Hugh Norton, alias Horton and Abraham Israel, alias Jones.

Yesterday morning died in the Old Baily Mr. John Wales, Attorney at law. Ibid.

Last week one Mrs. Welsh, a baker in Penny-fields, Poplar, was set upon between 2 and 3 in the afternoon by two foot-pads in Bow-lane, between Bromley and Poplar, as she was going to pay her meal man, who robbed her of 21l. 11s. and 3d. a Silver thimble and her wedding ring, and afterwards beat her in a barbarous manner. Ibid.

Their Majesties have fixed on monday se'nnight to set out from St. James's for Richmond, to reside there and at Hampton court till such time as the lodgings at Windsor can be made compleat for their reception. Ibid.

Yesterday Anne Jones, one of the persons ordered to be apprehended and sent to Newgate by order of the House of Commons, was conveyed thither by two messengers attending that hon. house. Ibid.

Yesterday morning the Lady of the Right Hon. the Lord Effingham Howard was brought to bed of a Son and Heir, at his Lordship's House in Conduit-street. Ibid.

This morning the Right Hon. Sir William Yonge, Bar. Knight of the Bath, and Member of Parliament for Honiton in Devonshire, set out for that place to be rechosen, he being appointed one of the Lords of the Treasury, and we hear he will be sworn in accordingly at his return. Ibid.

Yesterday several workmen began to repair and beautify the apartments in St. James's palace, lately inhabited by the Lord Harrington, for the better conveniency of his Royal Highness the Duke of Cumberland. Ibid.

A new writ is ordered to be issued out for electing a Burgess to serve in this present Parliament for the Borough of Bury St. Edmund's, in the room of Thomas Norton, Esq; who is made Lieutenant Governor of Chelsea College. And a new writ for electing a Burgess for the said Borough, in the room of the Right Hon. John Harvey, Esq; (commonly called Lord Harvey,) who is made Vice-chamberlain of his Majesty's houshold. Also a new writ for electing a Burgess for the Borough of Weymouth and Melcomb Regis in the County of Dorset, in the room of Mr. William Betts, Esq, whose election is declared void. D. Post.

Extract of a Letter from the Isle of Thanet, dated the 6th instant.

A box with several writings in it has been taken up at Margate in the Gore, as also a pocket, containing instructions dated at Hamburgh the 12th instant, N.S. from Schoon, and Torlade, to Capt, Cornelius Pietersz, directing him to proceed forthwith with his Ship Zea Ridder (i.e. Sea Knight) for Lisbon, and there to address himself to Mess. Barckhusen and Lustig: Also a manifest of Goods shipped in her, viz. 18 lasts of Barley, 4000 pipe staves, 25 bandies of Flax, and 41 packs and chests of Linnen and other Merchandize. Yesterday morning a boat drove on shore, and in it a dead man, who was buried last night at Margate: He had neither papers nor money about him, but a pair of buttons in his Collar. Part of the Wreck and some pipe staves have come on shore between Margate and the (illegible text), but at such distance that it will scarce pay the charge of salvage and burying the man. He was mark'd in his right arm

C PM P

I 1724 P

N P.

D. Journ.

At the Court at St. James's the 8th day of May 1730. PRESENT. The King's most excellent Majesty in Council.

His Majesty this day in Council was this day pleased to declare the Right Hon. Tho. Lord Trevor Lord President of his Majesty's most Hon. privy council, and his Lordship took his place at the board accordingly.

His Majesty having been pleased to deliver the custody of the privy seal to the Right Hon. Spencer Lord Wilmington, the oath of keeper of the privy seal was this day administer'd to him, and his Lordship took his place at the board accordingly.

The Right Hon. John Lord Harvey, Vice-chamberlain to his Majesty, was, by his Majesty's command, sworn of his Majesty's most Hon. privy council, and took his place at the board accordingly.

His Majesty having been pleased to appoint Henry Bromley, Esq; to be Lieutenant of the County of Cambridge, he this day took the oaths appointed to be taken thereupon, instead of the oaths of allegiance and supremacy. Gazette.

Whitehall, May 8. The King has been pleased to grant unto the Right Hon. Hen. Pelham, Esq; the office of Receiver and Paymaster-general of and for all his Majesty's Guards, Garrisons, and Forces, in Great Britain &c.

His Majesty has been pleased to appoint Sir Charles Turner, to be one of the tellers of the receipt of his Majesty's exchequer.

Sir Will. Yonge, to be one of the Commissioners for executing the office of Treasurer of his Majesty's Exchequer.

George Treby, Esq; to be master of the houshold to his Majesty.

Dr. Exton Layer, to be Surveyor-General of his Majesty's lands.

Thomas Norton, Esq; to be Lieutenant Governor of Chelsea hospital. And

Maurice Morgan, Esq; to be Lieutenant-Governor of the Isle of Wight. Ibid.

John Selwyn, of Matson, in the county of Gloucester, Esq; representative in parliament for the borough of Whitechurch, Groom of the bed-chamber to the King, is appointed Treasurer to her Majesty's houshold, in the room of Sir William Strickland, Bar. now secretary at war. And we hear that he will be succeeded as groom of the bed-chamber to the King, by John Clavering, Esq; representative in parliament for Great Marlow. Lond. Even.

Sir George Oxendon, Bar, and Hen. Bromley, Esq; one of the Knights of the Shire for the County of Cambridge, will be made Knights companions of the most Hon. order of the Bath, the vacancy resulting from the Duke of Richmond and Sir Robert Walpole, being made Knights of the most noble order of the Garter. Ibid.

Last thursday a Fishmonger presented to the Royal Society a Lobster, which was a true Hermaphodrite, and we hear that Dr. Nicholls, professor of Anatomy at Oxford, was desired by the Society to dissect it, and acquaint them with what he finds remarkable in it. Ibid.

Monday, May 11.

A new writ is ordered to be issued out for electing a new Burgess to serve in this present Parliament for the borough of Honiton, in the county of Devon, in the room of Sir Wm. Yonge, Knight of the most hon. order of the bath: and a new writ for electing a Burgess for Clifton-Dartmouth-Hardness, in the county of Devon, in the room of George Treby, Esq; also, a new writ for electing a Burgess for the borough of Totness, in the room of Exton Layer, L. L. D. Courant.

'Tis now said that the Parliament will not break up so soon as has been mentioned. Ibid.

Tuesday, May 11.

Whitehall. His Majesty has been pleased to direct Letters Patents to pass the Great Seal of Great Britain, for creating the Right Honourable Benjamin Lord Fitz-Walter a Viscount and Earl of Great Britain, by the Name, Stile and Title of Viscount Harwich in the County of Essex, and Earl of Fitz-Walter.

The Right Honourable John Lord Ashburnham a Viscount and Earl of Great Britain, by the Name, Stile and Title of Viscount St. Asaph in the Principality of Wales, and Earl of Ashburnham in the County of Sussex.

The Right Honourable Spencer Lord Wilmington, Keeper of his Majesty's Privy Seal, a Viscount and Earl of Great Britain, by the Name, Stile and Title of Viscount Pevensey in the County of Sussex, and Earl of Wilmington in the same County.

His Majesty has been pleased to constitute and appoint Sir Robert Walpole Knight of the most Noble Order of the Garter, George Dodington, Esq; Sir George Oxendon, Bart. William Clayton, Esq; and Sir William Younge Knight of the most honourable Order of the Bath, to be Commissioners for executing the Office of Treasurer of His Majesty's Exchequer.

His Majesty has been pleased to constitute and appoint the Right Honourable George Viscount Torrington, John Cockburn, Esq, Sir Charles Wager, Kt. Sir Thomas Littleton, Bart. Lord Archibald Hamilton, Sir Thomas Frankland, Bart. and Thomas Winnington, Esq; to be his Majesty's Commissioners for executing the Office of Lord High Admiral of Great Britain and Ireland, &c.

His Majesty has been pleased to appoint Sir Conyers Darcy, Knight of the most honourable Order of the Bath, to be Comptroller of his Majesty's Houshold.

The K. has been pleased to appoint Sir Wm. Strickland, Bart. to be his Majesty's Secretary at War. Gazette.

Yesterday being the last Day of the Term, several Persons Printers, Publishers, and others appeared on their Recognizances, at the Court of King's bench, and were continued. Courant.

Wednesday, May 12.

Yesterday the four Malefactors were executed at Tyburn, viz. Abraham Israel, alias Jones, David Aubert, James Dalton, and Thomas Williams; but Hugh Houghton, alias Horton was also ordered for Execution the same Day, hanged himself that Morning in one of the Cells. Last Night the Coroner's Jury sat upon the Body, and brought in their Verdict Felo de fe. Cour.

From the Pegasus in Grub street.

Our Brethren of Good-man's Fields have informed the Publick, that they will act the Orphan for the Benefit of the Charity Children of St. Mary, White-chappel. We hear further, that the Children are to sit in the Gallery, and entertain the Audience with an Anthem, instead of the Epilogue, that the Front-boxes will be kept for the Clergy, who will be admitted gratis, if they come in their proper habits: And we do not doubt, but they will be much entertained with the Character and Treatment of the Chaplain, in that Tragedy. We hear also, that there will be a Charity Sermon preached the Sunday following at White-chappel Church, for the Benefit of the Actors.

* * *

FOREIGN NEWS.

Thursday, May 7.

Paris, May 6. They have just finish'd here an Edition of all the late Pope's Works. The Sermons alone upon the different Feasts of the Virgin Mary, make four great Volumes. Evening Post and S. James's Even.

It is to be hop'd that some of our Members will be employ'd to translate these Sermons of his late Holiness. I should have recommended the pains-taking Mr. Ozell for such a Performance, if he had not declar'd that he should soon grub his pen.

Saturday, May 9.

This day arrived the Mail due from Holland.

Paris, May 13. N.S. On the 6th instant Baron Guedda, his Sweedish Majesty's Ambassador at the Congress of Soissons, and Envoy Extraordinary of this Court, had a private audience of the King, to notify the Death of the Landgrave of Hesse Cassel. On the 7. the Count de Goloskin, the Russian Ambassador, had a like Audience, to notify the death of the Czar. On the 9th instant, the Prince de Courtenay was found dead in his Chamber; there is only an old Ecclesiastick left of that Family. Gazette.

Monday, May 11.

Hanover, May 12. N.S. We have receiv'd a Confimation, that the King of Prussia and the Prince Royal his Son, design to make a Tour to London, to visit the King of Great Britain. A certain Englishman has obtained a patent of our Regency, for printing and whitening of Callicoes, by virtue of an order from the King of Great Britain our Elector: there is to be a play at Court every other Sunday during the summer season, and a Concert of Musick every other Sunday, for the entertainment of the Quality. Cour.

I am glad the Quality at Hanover have found a proper entertainment for Sundays. I hope so good an Example will soon be followed here.

* * *

Ships arriv'd at and sail'd from Great Britain, from May 4. to May 11.

Arrived

Ships Captains From For

May 4 Falmouth.

Prince Fred. Lovel Lisbon

Townshend Cooper Corunna

Apr. 30 Fowey.

Princess Royal Long Naples

May 8 Southampton.

Catharine Warwick Ostend

Portsmouth.

1 Martha Veal St. Vallerys

Dover.

5 Sea Nymph Broadhead Carolina

Downs bound home.

7 N.S. De Begona del Mello Bilboa

St. Susanea del Valle

8 Lucy Wood Smirna and sailed for

the Hope

9 Antelope Morris Lisbon

Fox Johnson S. Martins

11 Pearle Diamond Lisbon

Fame Hampton Bilboa

Crown Gallop Leghorn

Gravesend, bound home.

5 May Blessing Chapman Norway

James Readhead

7 Concordia Jacobson

8 St. Peter Lewis Amsterdam

Lady Margaret Barents

Catherine Clerbut Calais

Bourneaux Mer Pain Bourdeaux

Lady Eliz. Bredemy Amsterdam

11 Providence Hammond Dunkirk

Samual & Clerk Clark Bologn

Gravesend, bound out.

6 Tho. and Jane Rain ——— Jersey

Rich. and Eliz. Bradford ——— Ostend

Sum. and Sarah Friend ——— Malaga

7 Elizabeth Gifford ——— Jersey

Benjamin Small ——— Petersburgh

Czarina Wade ——— ditto

John & Robert Brathery ——— ditto

Dorothy Read ——— Gottemburg

Anne Goland ——— ditto

Boulter Lyon ——— Portugal

Endeavour Jervin ——— Holland

Isabella Innys ——— ditto

Anna Statia Micot ——— ditto

Mary Cranwell ——— ditto

Han. and Zepo. Cranwell ——— ditto

Mary Fryle ——— Cork

Willing Mind Wilkinson ——— Malaga

Quince-Tree Quince ——— Riga

Downs bound out.

8 Betty Philips Canaries

Sailed Falmouth.

May 5 Greenstead Rice London

Plymouth.

6 Heathcot Tolson London

Also all the former bound to the Eastward

Dartmouth.

All the Ships bound to the Eastward

8 Algarvis Olding Faro

Southampton.

4 Brothers Guillam Lisbon

Portsmouth.

Neptune Weldon Cadiz.

Downs bound out.

6 Carteret Durel Newfoundla.

Boneta Davy Streights

Sterling Rowe Wales

Beckenham Rooke Shoreham and about 30

Sail more, most of them Coasters.

8 Princess Louisa Banks Providence

Don Carlos Clark Malaga

Bolton Lyon Lisbon

Charm. Philly Lemon Streights

Lively Eyre Lisbon

London Hope Annis Philadelphia

Warden Wigan Petersburgh Portsmouth

Winds May 5, 6, N.N.E. 7, 8, 9, N.E. 10, S.S.E. 11, S.W.

Prices of Goods at Bear Key on Monday.

per Quarter

Wheat 18 to 28

Rye 14 to 15

Barley 10 to 14

Oats 8 to 14

Horse Beans 16 to 22

Hog Peas 14 to 18

Boiling Peas 20 to 23

Pale Malt 14 to 21

Brown Malt 16 to 16

Tares 20 to 25

Coals 21s. to 23s. 6d. per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 20s. to 28s. per Hundred.

Hops 1729 30s. to 60s. per Hundred.

Rape Seed 14l. to 15l. per Last.

On Tuesday Stocks were

South-Sea 102 5 8ths to 3 qrs. South Sea Annuity 105 5 8ths. Bank 140 1 half. Bank Circulation 7l. 10s. Prem. India 188 7 8ths. Three per Cent. Annuity 95 1 4th. Royal Exchange Assurance 92 1 half. London Assurance 12 1 8th. York Buildings 18. African 49. English Copper 3l. 10s. Welch ditto 1l. 12s. South Sea Bonds 4l. 2s. India ditto 5l.

The Course of the Exchange.

Amsterdam 34 7

Ditto at Sight 34 4

Rotterdam 34 8

Antwerp 35 a 1

Hamburgh 33 4 a 3

Paris at Sight 32 7 8ths

Bourdeaux at sight 32 1 half

Cadiz 42 3 qrs

Madrid 42 3 qrs.

Bilboa 42 3 qrs.

Leghorn 51 1 half

Genoa 54 1 half

Venice 49

Lisbon 5s. 6d. 3/8 a 6

Porto 5s. 5d. 1/8 a 1 half

Dublin 11 3 qrs.

To the Worthy Livery-Men of the City of LONDON.

Gentlemen,

YOUR Vote and Interest are humbly desired for

HENRY RAPER, Esq;

Citizen and Painter-Stainer;

AND

JAMES CHAMBERS, Esq;

Citizen and Goldsmith;

To be Sheriffs of this City and County of Middlesex, for the Year ensuing; who are the Two foremost in the List of those Gentlemen that for many Years past have been nominated by several Lord Mayors to serve that Office.

N.B. It has been unanimously resolved in Common-Council, that for the future all Sheriffs Fines shall be appropriated ONLY towards building a Mansion-House for the Lord Mayor, so much wanted to support the Honour and Dignity of this Great City.

* * *

ADVERTISEMENTS.

This Day is published,

AN Essay founded on Arguments Natural and Moral, proving the Immortality of the Soul. Translated from the Original Manuscript of the Archbishop of Cambray.

Printed for Francis Cogan at the Middle-Temple-Gate, and Lawton Gilliver at Homer's Head in Fleet-street. Price one Shilling.

* * *

This Day is published,

THE Amours of Philario and Olinda; or, the Industrious Wanton: A genuine History.

Printed for Francis Cogan at the Middle-Template-Gate in Fleet-Street. Price one Shilling.

* * *

Just published,

AN Anatomical and Mechanical Essay on the whole Animal Oeconomy in one View: wherein will be shewn the most wonderful Conduct of Nature, in all the Phænomena attending Human Bodies, with many curious subjects not commonly treated of. Necessary for all Lovers of Knowledge, particularly young Students in Anatomy, Physick and Surgery. With an Alphabetical Catalogue of Authors Names referred to on several Occasions in the foregoing Treatise.

By JOHN COOK, Student in Physick, and late of the College of Edinburgh.

Printed for W. Meadows at the Angel in Cornhil.

* * *

This Day is published,

Printed on a superfine Paper, in two Volumes in Quarto,

SOME Observations made in travelling through France, Italy, &c. in the Years 1720, 1721 and 1722: Containing a large and particular Account of the most remarkable Curiosities in those Countries, as well such as relate to their Manners, Customs, religious Orders, Ceremonies, &c. as likewise of their Architecture, Paintings, Sculpture, and other Antiquities, which are esteemed most worthy of the Observation of an English Traveller. With some short Remarks on the Air, Soil, Productions, Trade, Manufactures at several Places, occasionally interspersed. By Edward Wright, Esq; illustrated with 40 curious Drawings, design'd upon the Spot by the Author, and engrav'd on Copper by the best Hands.

Printed for Messieurs Ward and Wicksteed in the Inner Temple Lane.

* * *

This Day is Published,

Beautifully Printed, in one neat Pocket Volume, by the particular Direction of Mr. Samuel Briscoe, deceas'd,

The three intire Volumes of

THE Posthumous Works of that celebrated Poet Mr. SAMUEL BUTLER, (Author of Hudibras) in Verse and Prose. Written in the Time of the Grand Rebellion, and in the Reign of King Charles II. Being a Collection of inimitable Satires, Speeches and Reflections upon those Times. Published from Original MSS. and scarce and valuable Pieces formerly printed. The third Edition, corrected. Printed by and for Richard Rolly in Little Britain.

Of whom may be had, just published,

FRENCH and ENGLISH PARALLELS; or, the French Pronunciation made so easy, that by the Help of this Book alone, with out the Assistance of any Master the English Learner may attain the true Pronunciation of the French Tongue, by a Method entirely new.

* * *

Now in the Press, and will speedily be published,

A Compendious Alphabetical Dictionary of the antient Fabulous History, compil'd for the more easy understanding of the Poets, as well as the Designs in Paintings and Statues.

Done from the French of the Learned Sieur P. Chompre, in such a Manner not only as to serve for an Exercise Book for Latin and French Schools; but also for a Pocket Companion for young Gentlemen and Ladies who attend Theatrical Entertainments.

Printed for L. Gilliver at Homer's Head and F. Cogan at the Middle-Temple-gate, both in Fleet-street.

* * *

This Day is published,

A Compleat History of the ancient Amphitheatres. More particularly regarding the Architecture of those Buildings, and in particular that of Verona. By the Marquis Scipio Massei. Made Ennglish from the Italian Original, by Alexander Gordon, A.M. adorned with Sculptures. Also some Account of this learned Work. Which contains likewise, I. A succinct Account of Gladiators, and Gladiatory-Shews; with their Origin and Progress. II. Of Inscriptions relating to Amphitheatres. III. The Manner of Baking wild Beasts among the Ancients. IV. Of subterraneous Conduits, and other Aquæducts. V. A Detection of the Errors of Lipsius, Fontane, and others, who have written upon that Subject. VI. The Destroyers of ancient Monuments exposed; especially some under the Pontificate of the late Pope Benedict XIII. VII. An Account of genuine Medals; and a Description of the most remarkable Structures of the Ancients. Printed for Harmon Noorthouck, in the Great Piazza Covent-garden. Price 6s.

* * *

Books printed and sold by John Brotherton at the Bible in Cornhill.

Life of Oliver Cromwel, 8vo.

Collection of Novels, 12mo, 6 Vol.

D'Ano's Tales of the Fairies, 3 Vol. 12mo.

Free Thoughts on Religion.

Pilgrim's Progress in 8vo, with Cuts, 2 Vol.

Spectators, 8 Vol.

Prideaux Connection, 4 Vol.

Musical Misc. 4 Vol. 8vo.

The Dancing Master, by Mr. John Essex, 4to.

Boyer's Telemachus, 12mo.

Gay's Fables, 8vo.

Gordon's Geog. Gammar.

Boyer's Dictionary in 4to, or 8vo.

Blais's Sermons, 5 Vol. 8vo.

Shakespear's Plays.

Addison's Works, 4 Vol.

Lockyer's Trade to India

Abelard's Letters

Garth's Ovid, 2 Vol.

Plutarch's Lives, 8 Vol.

Don Quixot, 2 Vol.

Guardians, 2 Vol.

Ovid's Epistles

Dryden's Virgil.

* * *

Just publish'd,

THE Female Parson; or, Beau in the Sudds. An Opera, as it is acted at the New Theatre in the Hay-market. By Mr. Charles Coffey, Author of the Beggar's Wedding.

Printed for Fran. Cogan, at the Middle-Temple-gate in Fleet-street, and Lawton Gillver over against St. Dunstan's Church. Price one Shilling.

* * *

Just published,

TWO Epistles to Mr. Pope concerning the Authors of the Age. And the Merchant; on Trade, Navigation and Peace. Designed to give a new but just Idea, of the Pindaric Ode, and to shew the Scripture Style of the Prophets, highly proper for it. Dedicated to the Duke of Chandos.

Both by the Author of the Universal Passion.

Printed for Lawton Gilliver at Homer's Head against St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet-street.

* * *

Just Publish'd,

[Price 4d.]

The History of Executions, Numb. II.

(To be continued.)

BEING a compleat Account of the following Malefactors executor Tyburn, Apr. 17, 1730, viz. of Ferdinando Shrimpton and Robert Drummond, for Robbery and Murther, Peter Rivers, for robbery on the Highway. Francis Hackabount, a Footpad. William Newcomb, for House-breaking: And of those that were then reprieved.

Likewise how Coll. Charteris was pardoned for a Rape committed on Anne Bond. To which is added,

A genuine Information taken by seven of his Majesty's Justices of the Peace for the County of York, against a large Gang of Cheats, Thieves and Robbers, who at Times, infest every Part of the Kingdom; with a Description of their Persons, Haunts and Tricks.

Printed by R. Newton, at St. John's-Gate, and sold by the Booksellers in Town and Country

Where may be had,

Numb. I. Containing the Life of Everet, a noted Highwayman, &c.

* * *

This Day is published,

THE Nurse's Guide; or, a right Method of bringing up young Children. To which is added, An Essay on preserving Health and Long Life, with a Treatise on the Gout.

By an eminent Physician

Printed for John Brotherton at the Bible in Cornhill, and Lawton Gilliver at Homer's Head in Fleet-street.

Where may be had,

A General System of Hydrostaticks and Hydraulicks, philosophical and practical. An Enquiry in the Original and Rise of Springs: Draughts and Descriptions of the best Engines for distributing Water for the supply of Country Seats, Cities, &c. illustrated and explained by 60 copper Cuts. Done by the best Hands. In 2 Vols. in 4to. By Mr. Switzer.

* * *

This DAy is Publish'd

THE LIFE of the Right Rev. Dr. White Kennett, late Lord Biship of Peterborough; with several original Letters of the late Archibishop of Canterbury, Dr. Tennison; the late Earl of Sunderland; Bishop Kennett, &c. and some curious original Papers and Records, never before published. And also

The Foreigner's Guide: Or, a necessary and instructive Companion, both for the Foreigner and Native, in their Tour through the Cities of London and Westminster. Givin,

1st. A general Description of these two Cities, with an Account of their respective Government.

2dly. A Description of the Royal Palaces, Noblemens Houses, publick Buildings, Churches, Streets, Squares, and the most remarkable Places in and near the famous Metropolis: With an Account of the Inns of Court, Royal Society, publick Walks, Diversions, remarkable Days, Court Days, Post Days. And,

3dly. A Description of the several villages in the Neighbourhood; as Chelsea, Kensington, Richmond, Greenwich, Woolwich, Hampstead; and also others more remote, viz. Hampton-Court, Windsor, Oxford, Cambridge, Blenheim, New-Market Horse Races, Epson, Tunbridge, Bath. And,

4thly. An Account of the Rates of Coaches, Watermen; and also the Rates of Post Horses; with the Roads to Dover and Harwich.

Very useful and entertaining both to Foreigner and Native, and done into English and French.

Where may be had,

LOVE LETTERS on all Occasions, lately passed between Persons of Distinction. Collected by Mrs. Eliza. Haywood,

Pleasure with Sorrow, Peace with War allay'd,

Liberty fetter'd, Hope by Fear dismay'd;

Imbitter'd Honey, Earnest mix'd with Play,

Are, Love! the Emblems of thy sov'reign Sway.

Printed for, and sold by Francis Cogan, at the Middle Temple Gate in Fleet-street.

* * *

LONDON: Printed for Capt. Gulliver and F. Cogan near the Temple, Mr. Jackson in Pall-Mall, and J. Brotherton near the Exchange, and Sold by J. Roberts in Warwick-Lane, where Letters and Advertisements, &c. are taken in. [Price Two Pence.]

