The Grub-street Journal — March 26th, 1730

Exported from Wikisource on May 12, 2026

Numb. 12.

The Grub-street Journal.

* * *

Thursday, MARCH 26. 1730.

* * *

In Poets as true Genius is but rare,

True taste as seldom is the Critics share.

Pope's Essay on Criticism.

IT is a happiness peculiar to the Gentlemen of our Society, that whatever they publish meets with a good reception; if the account thereof, given by themselves or their book-sellers, may be depended upon, who are certainly best qualified to give it. Scarce any of their works, whether originals or translations, pamphets or poems, but soon after their first appearance in the world, make a second; occasioned, either by the demand of the Public, or the care of the book-seller: in whose power it is at any time to convert the first into the second edition with large additions, without any manner of alteration, except in the title page.

When a Play is to appear upon the Stage, the Town is generally prepared for it by some particular account of its excellency, printed in some of the news Papers, either by the Author himself, or by some particular Friend. While it is in action, the Audience is magnified from time to time, in the like accounts: and whatever it is in the Play-house, it is always represented in the Coffee house to a numerous Audience. When it comes to be printed, if by the good management of a party it has been kept upon the Stage, with indifferent success for several nights, the Author is so grateful, as publickly to thank the Town for their great indulgence, and to make his acknowledgments to some of the principal Actors, for their extream civility, care, and excellent performance. If it have but just escaped being damned and hissed off the Stage, the Patron is then assured by the Author, that the approbation of the rational and unprejudiced part of the Town has stamped some kind of value upon it. Soon after this it dies, lamented chiefly by the Book-seller; and none of those Friends who were so kind as to celebrate its birth, shew any signs of grief at its death, or bewail its untimely fate, either in an Elegy, or an Epitaph. Thus it would become, in three months space, as unknown, and forgotten, as if it had died threescore years ago; did not the Ghost of it appear in Shops, and upon Stalls, for some time after, to the terror both of Booksellers and Authors, till layed by that successful Composer of restless Spirits. Mr. James Jones, Waste-paper Merchant near Smithfield. But the short life which the Compositions of our Fraternity injoy, is compensated in some measure, by the loudness and extent of their fame while alive: for, like the displosion of a blunderbuss at random, they cause people to gape and stare for a good while at they know not what, while they wonder at the disturbance raised in the air by flash, noise, smock, and stench.

And if the Works of our private Members are attended with so much eclat, it is no wonder that the weekly Memoirs of our Society have been so well received by the learned and polite part of the Town; which immediately entered into the design of their publication. But since the generality of our Readers have not the same penetration; and if they had, since our first Journal, which gives an account of our design, is not now to be had; it may not be improper to say somewhat more explicitely of it in this, in order to make it the more universally understood.

It consists of two parts: a Letter, or an Essay upon some learned subject; and an exact account of all the most remarkable news, both domestic and foreign.

Our chief aim in the former is to reform the taste of the generality of Readers, which is very much depraved: insomuch that for one person who writes ill, there are at least twenty who judge amiss.

Ill writers and ill judges of writing, (like ignorant Doctors and Apothecaries) conspire to promote each others business, to the detriment of the Public; tho' the latter are much more blameable than the former, since these read out of choice, whereas many of those write out of necessity. And could the palate of Readers be once cured, so as to relish such food of the mind as is wholesome and nutritive, they would nauseate and reject all that trash, which not only palls the rational appetite, and hurts the eyes of the understanding, but likewise corrupts and depraves the mind, and fills it with a complication of diseases. By this means the Retailers of lewd and vicious nonsense would be soon obliged to take up with some other employment, if not useful, yet however less prejudicial, to the Public.

As our design, being levelled against stupidity, and chiefly wicked stupidity, must be owned to be in itself commendable: so in the execution of it we shall conduct ourselves without any partiality, either towards parties of men, or private persons; nor shall ever designedly insert any thing by way of reflection upon either, without sufficient grounds. And if any thing of that nature shou'd happen through inadvertency or miss information, as soon as ever we are better informed, the retractation shall be made as public as the reflection.

To shew that we have hitherto acted with such impartiality, it will not be improper to give two or three instances.

At the beginning of the last month, we received a letter, together with a copy of verses, reflecting upon Mr. Wilks and Mr Cibber, for rejecting Timoleon, and bringing Sophonisba upon the Stage: which copy, ending with these two lines,

Their curses freed Timoleon from the grave;

But miracles must Sophonisba save.

was printed in the Morning Post, and in Fog's Journal. But we thought proper to decline inserting any thing, which might unjustly reflect upon two such eminent persons, both of them famous Actors, and one an antient and illustrious Member of our Society. For at that time, there was no visible reason to condemn their united judgment in preferring one of those Tragedies to the other; nor has the learned Tim Birch, the Author of the Criticism on the new Sophonisba, advanced any thing since in prejudice to their judgment.

Tho' we wonder at the wit and learning of this Author; yet we cannot approve of his conduct in printing a Criticism upon a Play, before it was published; and inserting in that Criticism verses and pieces of verses of his own making, and then reflecting on them as being in the Tragedy. Such great Wits should never trust their memories in things of this nature; and should employ their invention not in the Text, but only in the Comment.

A pretended Defence of the new Sophorisba, in answer to a Criticism on that Play, by a Friend of the Author's, has appeared since the publication of the Tragedy. That by a Friend of the Author's is meant a Friend of the Author of the Criticism, is very probable from the stile and manner, which are exactly the same in both pamphlets. For a person to write pro and con, or to answer himself, is a common practice among the Grubean Gentlemen: but it is not to be rashly undertaken by young Cadets in Polemics, being an enterprize proper only for Veterans, who are perfect in their exercice, who know all the contrary motions to the right, and to the left, and can handle readily all sorts of offensive and defensive weapons.

However, this Gentleman's zeal is commendable, in endeavouring to expose an Author, who will probably be a profest enemy to our Society, of which by this critical performance he himself seems to be qualified to be a member; which honour may be one day conferred upon him. But at present it will be delayed, on the account of a passage in the Criticism, p. 20. I shrewdly suspect the Author's honesty, I fear he has been filching; it smells so rank of London-Bridge and Grub-street.

This the Society resented as a very unjust aspersion; there being no manner of communication in a learned way between Grub-street and London-Bridge. And a Gentleman, who had been abroad, said, that the Critic had certainly in his mind the Pont neuf at Paris, where the Works of the Grub-street Society in that City are sung and sold. But Mr. Mævius, who has a good deal of fire, (which all Poets ought to have) could not contain himself any longer, saying, He was informed, that the name of the Author of the Criticism was Small-Birch, and that of the Author of the Defence Small-Brook, whom from the similitude of their names, as well as of their natures, he imagined to be one and the same Person. On this occasion, he said he had made two extempore Disticks, to shew how well they brook'd their names, which' with Mr. President's leave, (who, he knew, did not much approve that sort wit, tho' several of the Members then present did) he would repeat.

So small the Birch, with which thou strik'st our Foe;

Unhurt, unmov'd, he never feels the blow.

So small thy Brook of wit, it runs with pain,

Cold, shallow, muddy, murm'ring through the plain.

I shall give another instance of our impartiality, by printing a Letter, written in answer to that of Zoilus, concerning a new Edition of Milton, which was printed in our Journal, Numb. IX. on the 5th of this month.

SIR,

IF you think there are no corruptions in the English Poets, and consequently no Emendations to be made, as in the Greek and Latin, let me tell you, you are wrong. I imagine you are of that opinion, because you write booty, and produce sham various Lections upon Milton, when you might have given us hundreds of true ones, if you had read that excellent Poet with care and understanding, and compared all the Editions of him with one another. Certainly the last Edition by Tonson is full of horrid hallucinations, and requires the manus medica of a good Critic, as much as Horace or Terence. If the Dr. whom you are pleased to call Zoilus, should publish his corrections of Milton, you wou'd see how far that Author is from being clean. Is it not plain, from Pope's Edition of Shakespear, and Theobald's Remarks and Emendations, which are most of them certain, that poor Shakespear is in a worse condition, and fuller of false readings than any of the Antients? If there was half as much nonsense and absurdity in Aristophanes or Sophocles, as is yet to be found, after all Pope's and Theobald's labours, in almost every page of Shakespear, I am sure they would be far from deserving the admiration and praises they have had for so many ages. I am told, that the Dr. you mention has several hundreds of Emendations upon Milton. If they are half of them as good as one I have lately heard in conversation, an edition from that reforming hand of his, would please every body. Where Milton has, [1]smelling gourd, the Dr. Corrects it, swelling gourd: undoubtedly right, for the gourd has little or no smell, surely not enough to have the epithet of smelling. Indeed the Melon has a fine high smell, and the epithet might have been tolerated there. Then the Dr. shews from Propertius that Milton writ swelling;

Cæruleus cucumis, timidoque cucurbita ventre.

Which verse our Poet must necessarily have had before his eyes, when he called the gourd, swelling. Its known to every body, that the cucurbita bellies out strangely as it grows; and St. Jerom very quaintly calls the belly of a Jug, cucurbita vasculi. I find also in Salmuth upon Pancirollus de rebus deperditis, that formerly the Vasalli, that cuckolded their masters, were said cucurbitare domines suos. Why, I can't conceive: whether, because after the cucurbitation the woman's waste, or the man's head, protuberated like a cucurbita; or because the gourd naturally swells and bumps out, and has the proper epithet of tumid, and in the Priapria is called feminosa; or because silly stupid fellows are said lippire cucurbitas, & cucurbitarum capita habere, as cuckolds have horns. Or perhaps, after all, (since in so dubious a point of Learning there's room for conjecture,) the expression had its rise from the use of the cucurbita, which besides a gourd, signifies also a cupping glass. Now Celsus in his Chap. de sanguinis detractione per cucurbitulas, says they are used, either when the materia qua intus est ladit, or ubi est inflazio.

But to return, I'll venture to assure you, that not only Milton, and Shakespear, and Waller, but all our best Poets are full of false Sections, that make them read flat and below them selves, if not talk nonsense. For a demonstration of what I say, I'm here give you some lines, with notes upon 'em, of a satyr of my Lord R——— &c.

Thus far was order'd by the Society to be printed: but the criticisms that follow were thought proper to be omitted, because to have inserted them would have been actum agere. For all the readings, which this learned Gentleman mentions, have been restored in the accurate editions of my L. Rochester's Poems, published by the learned Kirleus, which are the most compleat, and are used by the venerable Mothers of Drury-lane in their families.

Our worthy President, the most antient of Critics, intirely approved of the reading above-mentioned; and said, that to be convinced of the justness of it, one need only cast ones eye upon the context:

Then Herbs of every leaf, that sudden flour'd,

Opening their various colours, and made gay

Her bosom smelling sweet: and these scarce blown,

Forth flourish'd thick the clustring Vine, forth crept

The smelling Gourd, up stood the corny Reed,

Embattell'd in her field: &c.

Where it is not at all probable, that Milton would use the epithet smelling twice, within the compass of three lines. He added, that this learned Gentleman had as well the true stile, as the penetration of a Critic; and that he hoped he would favour the Society, not only with more of his Remarks upon Milton, but likewise with some upon Shakespear and Waller. That by his assistance Dr. Zoilus wou'd be better enabled to go on with his intended Edition of the first, Mr. Theobald to compleat that of the second, and Mr. Mævius to undertake a new one of the third. That thus it would evidently appear, by three signal instances, how much superior our Editions are, to those of our inveterate Enemies, particularly Mr. Pope and Mr. Fenton; who have injuriously incroached upon a province, which has, by a prescription time out of mind, peculiarly belonged to the Gentlemen of our Society.

This Account was read before the Society, and ordered to be printed. Bavius.

Die Mercurii Mar. 25. 1730.

* * *

LONDON.

By a Letter yesterday from Farnham in Surry we learn, that 5 or 6 Felons in Masks went the latter end of last week with Guns, &c. into the Park, to the Keeper's lodge, broke the windows, and fired in at the window of the Room where the Keeper lay, and wounded him; (for taking away, as they pretended, the Dog of Black Will, a fellow noted in that Country) and afterwards carried off several Deer. Next day Black Will's house was searched, and they found one whole Deer, and the heads of four others; but the carcasses were moved off. After the Fellows had robbed the Park, they went and robbed a Gentleman's Fish ponds in that neighbourhood of a vast quantity of fish. Strict search is made after these Felons. D. Post.

This week one Richard Jones of Chelsea was committed to the Gatehouse in Westminster, on a charge of marrying three Wives, one of whom hath been committed to Newgate for Felony, her former Husband being living. Ibid.

They write from Weymouth, March 15. That the day before came in there the Elizabeth of Dartmouth, Capt. Cooper, for Newfoundland; she sailed from Dartmouth the 23d past, and on the 7th instant, in Latitude 44 Degrees, and about 100 Leagues from the Lizard they met with a violent Gale of wind about the W. S. W. which Split her main sail all to pieces, and a Sea broke in upon her on the Broadside, which washed her Boat and Firehearth overboard, with three of her mariners; her goods likewise were shifted in the Hold, which has received much damage, as has likewise the Hull of the Vessel. Ibid.

On tuesday, being St. Patrick's day, the tutular Saint of Ireland, their Majesties and the rest of the Royal family, wore Crosses in honour of that nation. Even. Post.

Roger Johnson in Newgate is about disposing of his effects, viz. Jewels, Rings and Plate of a considerable value, in order to pay his 800 l. Fine, and have his liberty. Ibid. S. James's, and Lond. Even.

On friday night last Mr. Taylor, a master of a ship, having been at Westminster, and got pretty much in liquor, his friend put him into a Coach, and ordered a Porter to go with him; when he was set down, his wife examined his pockets, and miss'd 6 Guineas, and a French Guinea; the Porter being afterwards found at his lodgings, and searched, the money was taken upon him; and being carried before a Magistrate, he was that night sent to the Gatehouse, and thence removed to Newgate. Whitehall Evening.

One of the yeomen of the Guards was suspended on monday last for taking money from several persons the day before, for letting them in to see their Majesties dine in publick. Ibid.

Last night died, at his house in Bedford-Row, Richard Mead, Esq; who has left his estate, upwards of 100,000 l. to Henry Bromley, Esq; Knight of the Shire for the County of Cambridge, who married Miss Wyndham, (Daughter of Francis Wyndham, Esq; and Grand-daughter of the late Sir Francis Wyndham, of Trent, in Somersetshire, Bar.) his Niece. Lond. Even.

Friday, March 20.

Yesterday was held a General Court of the Bank of England, when their Governor acquainted them, that it was the opinion of the Court of Directors, that a Dividend of 3 per Cent. might be made for the half year, ending at Lady-day next; the warrants to be issued and made payable on or before the 16th of April; which was accordingly ordered. The Governor then acquainted them, that the Directors had judged it incumbent on them to acquaint the Proprietors, that there was no expectation of their continuing so large a Dividend. Courant.

The Marquess of Carnarvon's Lady is greatly indisposed at the Duke of Chando's house in St. James's-square, and being far advanced in her pregnancy, that noble family are under great apprehensions lest her Ladyship's illness may be attended with any ill consequences. D. Post.

Saturday, March 21.

There are some Letters in town which mention the death of the Chevalier at Rome after a few days illness; but this wants Confirmation. Applebee's.

The Roads between Acton and Tyburn being exceedingly bad, notwithstanding the great sums, which have been collected by the Turnpike, we hear the persons, who have contracted with the Commissioners to mend them (for which they had a very ample allowance) will be prosecuted with the utmost rigour; and it is hoped that This will be an Example to others, who pervert the laudable Designs of the Legislature in the same manner. Crafts.

We hear that the Lord Viscount Townshend was as last night to resign the Seals as one of his Majesty's principal Secretaries of State. Universal Spectator.

Yesterday the Transfer Books of the East India Company were shut up, and will be opened on the 9th of April next. Courant.

When the Express arrived in Scotland for the Earl of Weems to come to London, the Countess fell extreamly ill, on hearing of her Father's Misfortunes: her Ladyship hath seven Children now living, the second Son is named Francis-Chartres, and hath a very handsome Provision made for him by his Grand-father. Daily Post.

Yesterday at a Court held at Bridewell the following Gentlemen were elected Governors of that Hospital and Bethlem, viz. Mr John Cox, Edward Fellows, Esq; Mr. Richard Woodward, of Exchange Ally, Dr. John Bamber, Simon Urlin. Esq; Serjeant at Law, and chief Judge of the Sheriff's Court, Mr. David Chitty, Mr. William Woodball, Mr. Ambrose Wilson, Mr. John Cumer, Mr. Thomas Hassel, Mr. Robert Pycroft, Samuel Clarke, Esq; James Stone Esq; Mr. John Homer, Mr. Edward Gilbert, Mr. John Watts, Operator of the teeth in Fleet-street; and the usual Staves order'd to be carry'd to them, by the Steward and Beadles. Ibid.

The Lord Viscount Townshend is going to reside constantly at his Seat at Raynham Hall in Norfolk. Ibid.

On Thursday Evening, a poor Woman going along the Borough of Southwark, near St. George's Church, where some old Buildings were pulling down, and not regarding the Caution given her, a Beam fell on her, and crush'd her to Death. Daily Journal.

We hear that by the excessive Rains which have lately fallen, divers Meadows and Pastures about Windsor have been overflowed, and the banks broken down, by the Current of the River Thames in that part. Ev. Post.

A suit, we hear, is going to be commenced by order of the Treasury, against the High-Bailiff of Westminster, touching his Seizure of Col. Chartres's Goods and Chattels in the Liberty of Westminster: John Edwin, Efgi laying claim to them by vertue of a Grant of K. Charles II. to his Father and his Heirs, &c. of the Office of Proprietor of the Waste and Soil in the said Liberty of Westminster. St. James's Even.

The said High Bailiff hath detain'd all Col. Chartres's Cash in the hands of Mr. Drummond, Goldsmith at Charing Cross. Ibid.

One Mrs. Ray, a Maiden Confectioner in Bishopsgate street, was buried last Sunday Night in the Church of little St. Hellen's, in the following Manner, according to her will, viz. she was dress'd in a laced Hood, with a white Top-knot, and white Sarsnet hood, a lac'd holland Shift, white kid Gloves, a pair of white Silk Stockings with black Clocks, and a pair of white work'd Shoes trimm'd with black, and six elderly Maids held up her Pall. Enquiry was made a day or two afterwards, whether any Grave Robbers had paid her a Visit, but it is presum'd they were engag'd on other business in the Street, and had no Intelligence of it, so that she was found to have lain quiet enough. She was buried in a black Coffin with white Nails, but no plate on it, by reason no body should know her age. Ibid.

In the proceeding paragraph for six elderly Maids read six young Ladies. I think her Friends weed not have be so much afraid of Grave robbers: for I apprehend there was no great danger; but that she, who had lain so quiet all her life, would lye quiet still.

Monday, March 23.

Yesterday morning at his Majesty's Chappel Royal at St. James's 7 Priests and 2 Deacons were ordained by the Right Rev. Dr. Smallbrook, Lord Bishop of St. David's. Post Boy.

The same day, being Palm-sunday, their Majesties and the Royal Family went to the Chappel of St. James's; the sword of State was carried by his Grace the Duke of Manchester, and the Sermon preached by the Right Rev. Dr. Wynne, Lord Bishop of Bath and Wells, in the room of his Grace the Lord Archbishop of Canterbury. Ibid.

The same day divine Service was performed before his Royal Highness the Duke, the Princess Mary and Louisa, by the Rev. Dr. Tyrwhit, in his Highness's apartment. Ibid.

His Grace the Duke of Bedford is very much indisposed at his house in Bloomsbury-square. Ibid.

On friday last a Tripeman's servant was sent to Clare-market, on some particular business; but he attempting to knock down an Ox in a slaughter-house there, and the rope breaking with which he was tied, the beast rushed upon him, and gored his body in such a dangerous manner, that he lies now in a languishing condition. Ibid.

The Measles are come out on the Marchioness of Carnarvon since her being brought to bed, but proving a very kind sort, they are under no apprehensions of any bad consequences. D. Post.

Yesterday at 2 in the morning the Lord Viscount Galway's Lady departed this life at his Lordship's house in Brook-street near Hanover-square; she was sister to his Grace the Duke of Rutland. Ibid.

Money is sent to Portsmouth, to pay his Majesty's Ship the Lively to the 31st of October last. Ibid.

Money is also send to Plymouth to pay off his Majesty's Ship the Saphire, which lately came from the West-Indies. Ibid.

Tuesday, March 24.

Yesterday came on the Election of a Member of Parliament for the Borough of St. Alban's, in the room of Caleb Lomax, Esq; deceased. The Candidates were Thomas Gape, Esq; and ——— Brassey, Esq; at 4 in the afternoon the latter threw up the Poll, which then stood thus:

For Thomas Gape, Efq; 386

——— Braffey, Esq; 136

Whereupon Mr. Gape was declared duly elected. Post Boy.

The Daily Journal says, the Candidates were Thomas Gape, Esq; and ——— Brassey, Esq; when the former was elected by great majority, viz.

For Mr. Gape 399

For Mr. Brassey 165

Majority for M. Gape 234

234 Yesterday morning the Lord Viscount Townshend set out from his house at St. James's, with a great retinue, for his seat at Raynham-hall in Norfolk, for about three weeks. Ibid.

Yesterday as the Speaker of the House of Commons was passing in his Coach of State to Westminster, the Coach broke down over against the Cockpit at Whitehall, so that he was obliged to dismiss his attendants, and take a Chair to the house. D. Post.

Last sunday fortnight 11 persons crossing the river Mersey, near Warrington-bridge, out of Lancashire into Cheshire, in a Cock-boat belonging to a Hoy at Anchor in the same river, which accidentally ran against the Rope, and was over-set: 7 of them perished in the water, and the rest narrowly escaped being drowned. Daily Journal.

We hear that the pretensions of John and Thomas Edwin, Esq; to the effects of Col. Chartres, seized in George-street, Hanover-square, are waved; Mr. Morrice appearing to act under the just and legal title of Lessee to the Dean and Chapter of Westminster, of the soil and Waste thereof, for which he pays, pursuant to the Lease made, at his first entrance on his post 100 l. per Ann. and that their claim, as by Charter from K. Charles I. extends only to the districts of the palace. Ibid. In our quotation from the St. James's Evening of Saturday was read by a Grant of K. Charles II. Which of these is the true reading we must omit determining till these two Authors have debated the Case before the Society.

Charles Delafaye, Esq; Under-secretary to his Grace the Duke of Newcastle's Office, is dangerously ill, he being attended by several Physicians. Ibid.

Westminster, March 24. His Majesty came this day to the House of Peers, and being in his Royal Robes, seated on the Throne with the the usual Solemnity, Sir Charles Dalton, Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod, was sent with a Message from his Majesty to the House of Commons, commanding their attendance in the House of Peers; the Commons being come thither accordingly, his Majesty was pleased to give the Royal Assent to

"An Act for punishing Mutiny and Desertion, and for the better payment of the Army and their Quarters.

"An Act to enable his Majesty to prohibit any Person or Persons, his Majesty's subjects, or residing within this Kingdom, to advance or lend any sum or sums of Money to any foreign Prince, State or Potentate, without licence obtained from his Majesty under his Privy Seal, or some greater Authority.

"An Act for providing a Maintenance for the Minister of the Parish Church of St. Mary Stratford-Bow, in the County of Middlesex.

"An Act for making more effectual an Act passed in the eleventh year of the Reign of his late Majesty King George the first, for repairing and widening the Road from Sherbrook Hill, near Buxton, and Chappel in the Frith, in the County of Derby, to Manchester, in the County of Lancaster.

"An Act for making more effectual an Act passed in the twelfth year of the Reign of his late Majesty King George the first, for repairing the Roads therein mentioned, between Crachley Bank. in the Parish of Idsall, alias Shiffdall, and the Town of Shrewsbury, in the County of Salop."

And to seven private Bills. Gazette.

Wednesday, March 25.

On saturday next the fine new Market-house in Bloomsbury will be opened, and Markets held there 3 times a week. Country Higlers will, we hear, have their standings free from Rent, Stallage, and Pickage, for one whole year. The Market for Hay now kept there is to be removed to Broad St. Giles's. Courant, and D. Post.

On Sunday last Mr. Yates, Keeper of the Bell Ale-house in Hart-street, Covent Garden, was committed to the Gatehouse by Justice Bourke, for keeping a disorderly House, and yesterday he was bailed out before the said Justice. Daily Journ.

Guildford, Mar. 23. This day ended the Assizes for this County, at which a very merry Trial came on, upon an Indictment preferr'd by George Welling against Lucy Berry, and the Prosecutor having given Evidence, the Court were convinced of the Prosecutor's being a Woman, and consequently ———; upon which Lucy Berry was acquitted. Ibid.

Edinburgh, March 10. We hear from Sterling, that on friday last the Justices of peace of that Shire held their quarter Sessions, and had information given them against James and John Mc. Feats, messengers, &c. for oppressing the Leiges; the said John Mc. Feat having extorted from one man 37 l. sterling, for putting a Caption in execution against him for 8 l. sterling, and it being prov'd, the said Justices, by their sentence, ordain'd him to make Restitution of the money so wrongfully extorted, and to be whipt and banished the Shire; the said James and others absconded, otherwise they would have had the like Fate. Cour. Post Boy, and D. Post.

Edinburgh, March 13. Yesterday the Commission of the General Assembly affirmed the sentence of the synod of Angus and Mearns, deposing the Rev. Mr. John Glass from the Office of the Holy Ministry. Courant and D. Post, March 21.

Dublin, March 14. A few nights past one Fitzgerald, a proclaimed Robber, and great Horse stealer, was apprehended on Essex Bridge, where he had appointed a Rendezvous, but was betrayed by a Whore whom he conversed with: He had, when siezed, a charged Pistol slung under one of his arms, two halters, and a collar for horses, a key for forcing horse-locks, and some files: since his confinement in Newgate, several persons who lately lost horses from the lands about this city, have been with him, and made discoveries where several of their Cattle were sold, or otherwise disposed of. Cour.

* * *

FOREIGN NEWS.

Thursday, March 19.

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from France.

Lisbon, Feb. 16. N.S. On the 29th past died here, aged 118 years full out, Senhor Manual de Sequiers, who was in the service of the Crown when King John IV. was proclaimed in the year 1640. Also on the 5th instant died, in the Monastery of Esperanza in this City, where she was a lay sister, Jane de le Crux, aged 117 years, and in the 80th year of her profession. Post Boy.

The weather is very unsettled, but the sickness is at an end. The Rebellion in Corsica, (of which I advised you in my last) is a manner quelled; the Rebels being divided among themselves, have cut off two of their Chiefs, and about to others: The Genoese are sending 3 Gallies and some Barks with soldiers, to compleat their reduction. D. Journ.

Amsterdam, March 25. N. S. Our last Letters from Berlin advise, that upon certain information of the great preparation of war that are making by some of our neighbours, the King of Prussia had lent his commands to 12 Battalions and 50 Squadrons to begin their march from Prussia, by the Routs assigned them for that purpose: That Magazines were erecting at Magdenburg, sufficient to maintain an army of 80,000 men for several weeks, and that his Prussian Majesty had sent an Express to Moscow to desire the Court to keep in readiness the 24,000 Russians they are engaged to furnish in case his Territories be attacked by any foreign power. These Letters add, not withstanding, that in all appearance these differences will shortly be accommodated in a friendly way: That the Secretary of France had frequent conferences with the ministers; that Brigadier de Bourgay frequented the Court more than ordinary; and that they impiently expected the arrival of new ministers from Great Britain and Holland. St. James's Even. Post.

Saturday, March 21.

The affairs of Italy continue to grow every day, as to all outward Appearance, rather worse than better; and yet we are continually told, that they will be speedily brought to an happy accomodation; which looks somewhat like the assurance of a French Quack, who endeavoured to convince his Patient, under an increasing Distemper, that every bad symptom was all for the better. Craftsman.

Our advices from Germany give us the same inconsistent account of the Congress of Brunswick, the Negotiations there are attended, say they, with more Difficulties than ever; and yet it is generally believed that a method will be soon found out to adjust all the matters in dispute. We presume by the Minister, who is lately set out from hence for the Court of Berlin, for we may be convinc'd by the Congress of Soissons, and the Treaty of Seville, that British Ministers are almost able to work Miracles. Ibid.

We hear from Rome, that Cardinal Coscia, the upstart Favourite, and prime Minister of his late Holiness, continues to abscond himself, in order to avoid the fury of the Populace, whom he burthen'd with grievous Taxes and Impositions, during his late Administration: from whence we may learn, that even the most abject, slavish People will endeavour to revenge themselves of an oppressive Minister, when he is out of power. Ibid.

Hague, March 24. N.S. Sir Charles Hotham arrived here from England on the 21st instant at night, the next day he visited the Great Pensionary, M. Fagel, and other Ministers of this State; and yesterday morning he set out for Utrecht, thence to proceed to the Court of Berlin. Yesterday morning Baron Ginkel set out likewise for Berlin, by the way of Veno, of which he is Governor. Gazette.

This day arrived a Mail from Holland.

Vienna, March 15. In an article in the Holstein Gazette published here, there is an account from Moscow of the 13th of February, giving to understand, that the Empress of Russia had resolved to live in good Neighbourhood with his Imperial Majesty of Germany; and that the 30,000 Men, as stipulated by Treaty for succours to his Majesty in case of a Rupture, were ready to march on the first notice. St. James's Evening.

A Courier is arrived here from London, which, as 'tis said, has brought a new project of the several Powers concerned for preserving the Peace of Europe; and several other Couriers are arrived from Spain and Italy corroborating the same; however, nothing was wanting to prepare here for a vigorous defence in case of a war. Ibid.

Monday, March 23.

On saturday arrived the Mail due from Holland.

Ratisbon, March 19. N.S. We are assured that the Emperor, to shew his inclination to peace, and to put an end the differences about the Introduction of the Infant Don Carlos into Italy, has made such a proposal to the Allies of Hanover, as they will hardly reject. Post Boy.

Frankfort, March 21. It was currently reported yesterday, that the Landgrave of Hesse-Cassel was dead. It is certain, according to the best advices from thence, that may be depended upon, he was so ill that they despaired of his life. It is rumoured, that the King of Poland has offered the Emperor a considerable body of Saxon Troops, but upon condition nevertheless that they shall not be employed in the Empire, or in Germany. It is said too, that no more Imperial troops will be permitted to pass through the territories of Bavaria, in their way to Italy. Daily Post.

Hamburgh, March 11. Our last advices from Hanover import, that the express which had been sent to Berlin, was returned, with Letters that gave occasion to various discontents; that, however, the Hanoverian subjects, lately insisted as they were going to Munden, were released without any difficulty, by order of the King of Prussia, and that his Prussian Majesty has expressly forbid his officers to take into his service for the future any Hanoverian subject, which is regarded as a good step towards restoring a harmony and friendship between the two Courts. Ibid.

Tuesday, March 24.

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from France.

Paris, March 29. N.S. Mademoiselle le Couvreur, one of the finest actresses upon the French Stage, died last week, reckoned worth 160,000 Livres, She has left her sister a contract of 479 Livres a year, and 3000 Livres so ready money, but her universal Legatee is M. d'Argentat, Counsellor in the Parliament. Courant.

Munich, March 16. N.S. On the 14th instant, arrived here an express dispatched by the General Count Minutzi from Venice, with advice, that the Electress Dowager of Bavaria died that morning at half an hour after two, of a Fever, occasioned by a violent Cholick, aged fifty four years, being born March 4, 1676. That Princess was named Teresa, Cunigunda, and was daughter to John Sobieski, King of Poland. She was married in 1694 to Maximilian-Emanuel, Elector of Bavaria, who died in 1726. Ibid.

Hague, March 31. N.S. Yesterday came advice, that the Landgrave of Hesse Cassel died on Sunday last, and that Prince William has taken upon him the Administration, 'till orders come from the King of Sweden. Yesterday an Express was sent from hence, with new Instructions for General Grovestein, who is at Paris. Gaz.

This day arrived a Mail from Holland.

Boulogn, March 14. The Marquis de Monteleon, Ambassador of Spain, is passed by here in his way to Rome; from whence we learn, that the Cardinals Belluga, Davia, and Pica were ill in the Conclave; that several Scrutinies had been already made, in one of which the Cardinal Imperiali had 7 voices, the Cardinal Falconieri 8, and the Cardinal Borghesi 5; that the Cardinals created by Benedict XIII were strongly united, and it was believed the Election would fall on Cardinal Marcoschi, who is one of this last Creation. Whitehall Even.

Wednesday, March 25.

Leghorn, March 11. Our last letters from Cadiz and Barcelona confirm the great Preparations there for the Imbarkation of Spanish Troops. D. Journal.

Vienna, March 18. N.S. We have Advice from Constantinople, that the young Sophi of Persia, commonly called Prince Thamas, had at last the good fortune to recover the capital City of Ispahan; and that Sultan Efreff was retired with a small Body of Men. On the 14th Orders were sent to the respective Battallions and Squadrons designed for Calabria, to march to Fiume, by the Routes before laid down to them. The Masters of the Ships that are to carry them from thence to Reggio, insist upon five Florins per Man, because they shall have no Freight back. More Bakers are newly contracted with; and double diligence is used in raising Recruits, the Drum being ordered to beat for compleating the Regiments of Horse, the Recruits for which have hitherto been raised without any publick Notice. This looks more and more and more like a War in Italy. Orders are more over sent to Istria, Naples, and Sicily, not to suffer any more laden Ships to depart from the Harbours there, for Portugal, Spain, or the Levant. Our depends upon the Succour of 30,000 Men from Muscovy, to secure Hungary against any Enterprizes of the Turks; and, we are told, that next month will come out an Imperial manifesto, containing the reasons why the Emperor is obliged to oppose the Introduction of Spanish Troops into Italy, and the designs of the Allies of Seville. We expect to hear very soon of the arrival of the two Counts Coningsek at Paris from Spain; and if our Information be true, the two Counts Kinski, who are at the Courts of England and France, will forthwith ha recalled. Post Boy.

Hague, March 31. They write from Turin, that the K. of Sardinia was much indisposed of a Fever. Ibid.

The Course of the Exchange.

Amsterdam 34 2 4

Ditto at Sight 34 1

Rotterdam 34 5

Antwerp 35 2

Hamburgh 33 1

Paris at Sight 32 5 8ths

Bourdeaux at sight 32 1 half

Cadiz 42 5 8ths

Madrid 43

Bilboa 42 7 8ths

Leghorn 51 7 8ths

Genoa 54 7 8ths a 5.

Venice 49 7 8ths

Lisbon 5 s. 6 d. 3/4 a 2 8ths

Porto 5 s. 5 d. 3/4

Dublin 12

Prices of Goods at Bear Key on Tuesday.

per Quarter

Wheat 22 to 28

Rye 19 to 16

Barley 14 to 16 6

Oats 9 to 15

Horse Beans 20 to 25

Hog Peas 17 to 20

Boiling Peas 23 to 25

Pale Malt 19 to 23

Brown Malt 19 to 22 6

Tares 24 to 28

Coals 23 s. to 24 s. per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 20 s. to 37 s. per Hundred.

Hops 1729 30 s. to 55 s. per Hundred.

Rape Seed 14 l. to 15 l. 10 s. per Last.

On Tuesday Stocks were

South-Sea 102 1 8th to 102 1 4th, 102 3 8ths. Annuities 106 3 8ths. Bank 104 1 half, for the opening. Bank Circulation 6 l. 10 s. Premium. India 186 1 4th, for the opening. Three per Cent. Annuity 94 7 8ths. African 42. Royal Exchange Assurance 89. London Assurance 12, Books shut. York Buildings 16 1 half to 5 8ths. English Copper 3 l. 13 s. Welch ditto 1 l. 13 s. South Sea Bonds 4 l. 2 s. Premium. India Bonds 5 l. 2 s. ditto.

The General Shipping LIST.

Ships arriv'd at and sail'd from Great Britain, from March 17, to March 24.

Ships Captains From For

Bristol.

Arrived.

16. Seville Pack. Davis Alicant

18 Patience Bowles Jamaica

20 Joseph & Ann Cupples ditto

——— Normal N. England

Bediford.

15 St. Cecilia Jourdain Oporto London

Falmouth.

13 Philippa Hawkins Canaries

17 Olive-branch ——— Penzance Hav. de Grace

Greyhound ——— Dungarven Gibraltar

18 S. Domingo ——— Calais Rochel

K. George Pack. Leane Lisbon

19 Eagle Packet Emmet Corunna

Plymouth.

17 Terra nova Soaper Hamburgh Malaga

Minerva Pitt Tinmouth Newfoundla.

Weymouth.

16 Elizabeth Cooper

who sailed from Dartmouth, 23d of Feb. for Newfoundland, and on the 7th at March met with a violent Gale of wind, by which she was forc'd back again having received damage.

17 & 18 Neptune Lawrence London Malaga

Preston Hallum ditto Lisbon

Britannic Peddy ditto ditto

Antelope Morris ditto ditto

George Gillup Leith ditto

Sam. & Rebec. Cock Yarmouth Bristol

Nancy Lithgoe London Africa

Friend's Adven. Moore Rotterdam ditto

Cornwall Skinner London Genoa

Constantine Wright ditto Philadelphia

Dragon Baron Ostend Gibraltar

Russel Bayly London N. England

Goodfellow Sanders ditto Leghorn

Britannia Kelsey ditto Cadiz

19 & 20 Elizabeth Lee ditto Carolina

Sudbury Mackenzie Stockholm Bristol

Halifax Proctor London Gibraltar

Globe Winston ditto Chester

Pr. Frederick Fenton Hamburgh Lisbon

Bedwell Wade London Mediterrane.

Cowes.

16 Supply Randall ——— Maryland

Albany Bryant ——— New York

Resignation Springold Rotterdam Streights

Mary Huggle ditto ditto

17 Rudge Prince Pool Rochel

Ann Mackrell Newfoundla. London

Funny Giles London Lisbon

Sarah Barret ditto Carolina

Success Hammond ditto Oporto

Conclusion Pennell Yarmouth Cork

Amelia Brooks London Jamaica

Concordia Numels Hamburgh Bourdeaux.

James & John Moore Rye Oporto

Southampton.

18 George & Jane Allez Guernsey

Friendship Janverin Oporto

Portsmouth.

15 Ann & Elizab. Ayres Dunkirk

Katherine Drake Havre Ostend

17 Charm. Nancy ——— Hamburgh

Eleanor Hill ditto Madera

Molly Wharton Rotterdam Lisbon

Fancy Daglish ditto ditto

Success Hammond ——— Oporto

Molieneaux Beard ——— ditto

Batson Cook ——— ditto

Eagle Dornford ——— N. England

Providence Gorgison Longsound Plymouth

18 Marg. & Eliz. Greggs Cephalonia Hamburgh

Dover.

16 Providence Mead ——— Ireland

21 Chester Sloop Curter ——— S. Kilts

Downs bound home.

17 Sarah Blake Lisbon

Han. & Elizab. Jones Cadiz

Malaga Merch. Goulding Malaga

Success Dornford Canaries

Sea Nymph Forster Carolina

John Colvert ditto

Tagus Hughes Lisbon

Gravesend bound home.

16 Depthford Metcalf Ostend

Jane & Margar. Hedley Amsterdam

Gotten. Merch. Mackenzie Stockholm

Reward Moore Chester

17 Sarah & Eliz. Shepherd Seville

Isabella Dickenson Amsterdam

Anastasia Nicholls Canaries

Charm. Jane Hume Camphire

19 Hope Carstens Hamburgh

Hannah & Eliz. Jones Cadiz

Royal Vineyard Brown Calais

Fortune Vandersmiffe. Hamburgh

Gravesend bound out.

17 Sarah & Hannah Scott ——— Maderas

Lovely Betty Marshall ——— ditto

John & Martha Calkin ——— Dublin

Josiah Hales ——— Dantsick

St. Peter Washo ——— Hamburgh

18 Esther Kenwood ——— Lisbon

Lammorborgh Linsey ——— Holland

19 Mary Hall ——— ditto

Delight Taylor ——— ditto

Anne and Eliz. Long sailed out of the

Downs the 22d. Antigue

Eliz. and Mary Maples ——— France

Charles Cromare ——— ditto

20 Katherine Taylor ——— ditto

Sarah Erving ——— N. England

Eagle Stanton ——— Streights

21 Prince William Pugsley ——— ditto

Henry Bewerson ——— Sound

Three Sisters Jemson ——— Germany

Patapsico Lux sailed out of the

Downs the 22d Maryland

22 Cazer Sharp ——— Riga

Desire Ballard ——— Dantzic

Falmouth.

Sailed For

16 Townsend Pac. ——— Corunna

Dartmouth.

17 Amy Kirby London

Portsmouth.

15 Providence Begnell Lisbon

Nightingal Robinson Dieppe

14 Providence Saunders Gibraltar

Dover.

15 Maidstone Lawrence Malaga

16 August Hobbs Camphere

Ann Hill Amsterdam

Downs bound out.

All sailed the 22d.

MISFORTUNES.

Eliz. of Newcastle, Atkinson, bound from Stockholm to London, struck on Harborow Sand the 8th of March, but got off, and afterwards sunk near Yarmouth, in 8 fathom water; all the Men saved.

George, Verdon, bound from Malaga to Hamburgh, lost the 12th instant near Padstow; one Person saved.

Lyndsey, Ellison. bound from St. Ives to Liverpoole, lost the 13th instant with a 4 miles of Liverpoole; her Crew saved.

The Ship of Peter Hell, bound from London to St. Ubes, lost in the Channel.

Wind 17 S. by W. 18 S. 19 S. by E. 20 W. 21 S. W. 22 N. W.

* * *

ADVERTISEMENTS.

This Day is published,

Printed on a superfine Paper, in two Volumes in Quarto,

SOME Observations made in travelling though France, Italy, &c. in the Years 1720, 1721 and 1722; Containing a large and particular Account of the remarkable Curiosities in those Counties, as well such as relate to their Manners, Customs, religious Orders, Ceremonies. &c. as likewise of their Architecture, Paintings, Sculpture, and other Antiquities which are esteemed most worthy of the Observation of an English Traveller. With some short Remarks on the Air, Soil, Productions, Trade, Manufactures of several Places, occasionally interspersed. By Edward Wright, Esq; illustrated with curious Drawings, design'd upon the Spot by the Author, and engrav'd on Copper by the best Hands.

Printed for Messieurs Ward and Wicksteed in the Inner Temple Lane.

* * *

This Day is Publish'd,

A Criticism on the new Sophonisba, a Tragedy, as it is Acted at the Theatre Royal in Drury Lane. Printed for F. Cogan at the Middle Temple Gate in Fleet-street.

* * *

This Day is Publish'd,

AN Answer to the Criticism on the New Tragedy of Sophonisba, lately Acted at the Theatre Royal in Drury-lane.

By a Friend of the Authors.

Printed for F. Cogan, at the Middle Temple Gate in Fleet street.

* * *

This Day is published,

And lately printed by Subscription,

A Complete History of Arianism and Socinianism, in 2 Vols. in 4to. a few remaining Copies unsubscribed for, are to be sold at the Subscription Price, by Mr. Gilliver, Bookseller, at Homer's Head over against St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet-street.

Where may be had,

1st. The Reverend Dr. Hick's Thesaurus Septentrionalium Ling. vet. in 3 Toms. Folio. Printed at the Theatre in Oxon.

Arrian's History of Alexander's Expedition. Translated from the Greek, by Mr. Rooke, in 2 Vols. 8vo. with large Notes.

* * *

This Day is published,

THE Nurse's Guide; or, a right Method of bringing up young Children. To which is added, An Essay on preserving Health and Long Life with a Treatise on the Gout.

By an eminent Physician.

Printed for John Brotherton at the Bible in Cornhill, and Lawton Gilliver at Homer's Head in Fleet-street.

Where may be had,

A General System of Hydrostaticks and Hydraulicks, philosophical and practical. An Enquiry into the Original and Rise of Springs: Draughts and Descriptions of the best Engines for distributing Water for the supply of Country Seats, Cities, &c. illustrated and explained by 50 copper Curt. Done by the best Hands. In 2 Vols. in 4to. By Mr. Switzer.

* * *

For the Benefit of those Persons who are afflicted with the DROPSY,

Mrs. Eliz. Knell, who lives next Door to the Baker and Basket in Middle-street, Cloth-fair, near West-smithfield,

STILL continues to perform great Cures in the Dropsy, on both Sexes and all Ages.

N. B. An Account may be had of several Cures at the Place aforesaid.

* * *

LONDON: Printed and Sold by J. Roberts in Warwick-Lane, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in; and at the Pamplet-Shops of London and Westminster, and also at the Pegasus (vulgarly called the Flying-Horse) in Grub-street. (Price Two Pence.)

↑ Paradise lost, Book VII.

