The Grub-street Journal — February 12th, 1730

Exported from Wikisource on May 11, 2026

* * *

Numb. VI.

The Grub-street Journal.

* * *

Thursday, FEBRUARY 12. 1730.

* * *

As all is dullness, when the Fancy's bad:

So without Judgment, Fancy is but mad.D. of Buck. Essay on Poetry.

A NEW Comedy, called, The Humours of Oxford, having been read before the Society with great approbation; they could not but express their wonder at the bad taste of the Town, which had shewn so little regard to so excellent a performance. The young Gentleman, who has modestly declined putting his name to this Piece, in his Dedication to the Earl of Chesterfield, modestly calls it an insignificant Trifle; which yet, in the vain hopes that it may entertain his Lordship in the Study, he humbly begs leave to lay before him. This however he should not have presumed to have done, had not the approbation of the rational and unprejudiced part of the Town stampt some kind of value upon it. Several of these Gentlemen who shewed themselves so rational and unprejudiced on this occasion, are Members of our Society; who stampt a just value upon this Piece very early, at its first Rehearsal; of which the learned Author of the Weekly Medley of Jan. 3. gave the first account, informing us, that it was rehearsed with great applause to a very small audience.

The design of this young Author is very laudable, it being to expose one of those two Seats of Learning (as they are falsly called) which breed up persons in the greatest enmity to our Society. For being there confined to the reading of the dull Authors of Antiquity, they often contract such a pedantic turn of thought and of expression, as is directly opposite to the Grubean erudition. But notwithstanding all the care of these two Seminaries of Pedantry, to propagate it throughout the Nation; there arise yearly at both places persons of a sublime genius, who scorning to be confined to such narrow bounds, spend the greatest part of their time in genteel diversions; and the rest in reading the polite Authors of the last and present age. By this means they come to distinguish themselves very early in the world, by some surprizing Composition; such as that of this Gentleman; who, we hope, may live to be a great ornament to our Society; tho' the vivacity of his Wit does not seem to presage any great longevity. In vindication of this excellent Comedy, again.it the ill-grounded cavils of the irrational and prejudiced part of the Town, who did all in their power to damn it, there needs nothing more than to lay before the Reader a plain representation of the whole Drama; from which, without any illustrations, the extraordinary Art of the Post in conducting it, will evidently appear.

Act I. Lady Science, because Gainlove could not give her a satisfactory account of all the different Sects from Socrates to Whiston, being come to Oxford, with her niece Clarinda, and her daughter Victoria, Trumore, a Colonel of the Guards, and Shamwell, a pretended Lord, come thither likewise, in pursuit of Clarinda. Gainlove, who had lately courted Lady Science, now makes his addresses to her daughter Victoria, only with a design to debauch her; who is likewise courted by Ape-all, an Oxford Scholar, with the same view. These are all supposed to walk in Paradise-walks some morning pretty early.

Act II. Ape-all, having received news of his Father's death, and thereupon thrown off his academical habit, comes into the Walks, followed by a servant with a large looking-glass. Here he meets with Kitty, a Tavern man's daughter, with whom he had an intrigue on promise of marriage; which he refusing now to perform, she resolves to be even with him.

Haughty, a Fellow of a College, who courts Lady Science, gallants her hither; where meeting with Clarinda, Victoria, and Ape-all, abundance of polite and smart repartee passes betwixt them.

Trumore, who had been disgusted at Clarinda's ill treatment of him, and thereupon resolved to return to London, comes in in a riding habit; but, upon further ill treatment, resolves to stay, in defiance of her power.

Act III. Trumore, having received a letter from an unknown hand, informing him that Shamwell was an Irish Fortune-hunter, comes into the Walks, and delivers it to Clarinda. Meanwhile Gainlove, first by arguments, then by force, endeavours to debauch Victoria; who getting from him, comes to Clarinda. She, having charged Trumore with forging the letter, gives it Shamwell; at the same time speaking very advantageously of his accomplishments: upon which he declares, that he wrote it himself, in order to discover the sincerity of her affection.

Victoria, who had been a silent Spectator of all this, being now left alone, and seeing Gainlove coming, hides herself in an arbour; where she hears a soliloquy of his declaring his reformation; upon which she appears, and a reconciliation follows.

Lady Science returning with Mr. Haughty, Gainlove owns his passion for Victoria to her, to which the absolutely refutes her consent; and resolves to marry her to old Mud-brains, Fellow of Brazen-nose, recommended by Haughty.

Act IV. Haughty having sent for Conundrum, a Fellow of the same College with himself, to a Tavern, lets him know, that he had been married three times already, and was just upon the fourth match; at which Conundrum pretends to be very angry with him for his perjury: but upon Haughty's recrimination of knavery, fornication, and adultery, they agree; and Conundrum promises to marry him next morning to Lady Science, who was to come to see the chappel. After this they get drunk together, and are taken by the Vice chancellor.

Dash, the Drawer, who has an intrigue with Kitty, tells her, that he had been informed by Victoria's maid, that an old Granum of her Mistress was just dead, and had left her 10000 l. which Lady Science concealed from her, lest the should refute to marry old Mudbrains.

Trumore, disguised like a Lawyer, in order to find a flaw in Shamwell's writings, by accident meets Gainlove disguised like old Mudbrains at Lady Science's lodgings; and after some time they discover each other, and their designs.

Gainlove passes upon her Ladyship for old Mudbrains; and receives her consent to marry Victoria immediately, with whom he is to have 20000 l. fortune: but Ape-all unluckily comes in, and accidentally discovers him.

Tho' Trumore, who had passed upon Shamwell for a Lawyer, and drawn him into a bargain about the forging of writings, had discovered this to Clarinda; yet Shamwell was master of such devilish cunning, as to turn all to his own advantage; upon which she declares herself resolved to marry Shamwell next morning.

N.B. This cunning being of a devilish nature, the Poet did not think proper to acquaint the Audience with it.

Act V. Ape-all enters with a letter signed Victoria, appointing him to meet her (drest in a veil) at eleven, in order to be married; which in his transport he shews to Trumore, and leaves in his hands. Trumore shows it to Gainlove; who thereupon meeting Victoria, flying to him from her Mother, to avoid marrying old Mudbrains, quarrels with her.

Ape-all and Kitty, (in a veil, passing for Victoria,) as they go to be married, are met by Gainlove, who challenges Ape-all; but upon Kitty's shewing her face, he desists.

While Ape-all and Kitty are marrying, Gainlove and Victoria being reconciled, agree to be married themselves by the same person who coupled the others.

While this is transacting, Trumore meets Clarinda and Shamwell as going to the next Church for the same purpose: when she, by feigning to have a regard solely for Shamwell's person, draws from him a confession, that he is only a pretended Lord; and then promises to marry Trumore.

Lady Science and Haughty enter at her lodgings, with Conundrum in a Clergyman's habit, as just married by him. To them Ape-all and Kitty who, pulling off her mask, discovers herself. Then Gainlove and Victoria, entering, ask Lady Science blessing; who refuses it.

As Ape-all goes out, he meets his Father, whom he imagined to be dead, who discovers himself to be the person who had married him and Kitty, Gainlove and Victoria; and is presently discovered to be Gainlove's father too.

Haughty being arrested by an Officer for perjury, and his Wife appearing, and laying claim to him; Lady Science's marriage with him is found to be invalid, both on her account, and of Conundrum's incapacity to marry them. Upon which Lady Science returns to her senses, and is reconciled. To compleat all, Trumore and Clarinda enter as just married.

The remaining Observations will be printed in another Journal.

BAVIUS.

To Mr. Mackario Richardus.

Feb. 11, 1730.

SIR,

YOUR admirable Translation of the Latin Epitaph, [printed in the Post Boy, Jan. 30. and in the Grub-street Journal of Feb. 5.] with which you obliged the learned World in the last Universal Spectator, being judged by the Society infinitely to exceed that of Mr. Poppy in the Grubæan manner, I am commanded by them, to reprint it in the Journal, with a remark or two.

Here lies Francisca, with her Husband join'd,

And now, what was one flesh, one dust we find:

Her sister Anna's ashes too lie here;

And thus three bodies in one dust appear.

The Three in One, who made them three before,

From this one dust, three bodies shall restore.

Francisca and Anna are certainly much more poetical names, than plain Frances and Anne; as Richardus sounds much better than Richard. Mr. Poppy, being short-sighted, could not find, by inspecting the monument, this one dust which had been one flesh; nor the three bodies, which appear in one dust. This is a great improvement of the original, which says only in the 2d line, Et cinis est unus; and in the 4th Corpora trina jacent. The finding this one dust, and the appearance of three bodies in one dust, could scarce happen to any one but a Sexton; who with as much reason may be a Translator of Epitaphs, as a Parish-Clark is often a Composer. Who made them three before, in the 5th line, is so exact a version of Ille opifex rerum omnipotens, that Mr. Poppy declares he will never hereafter undertake to translate any verses whatever; if you will be pleased to give timely notice, that you design to do them your self, either to him, or to

Your admirer and humble servant,

BAVIUS.

* * *

LONDON.

Thursday, Feb. 5, 1730. On tuesday last Mr. Bambridge and Mr. Corbet went up to the Court of King's Bench, Westminster, and withdrew their Recognizances, and discharged their Bail. Courant.

Last monday night, as Mr. Beard, who lodges at Fulham, was going home from a relation's house in Dartmouth-street, Westminster, he was attacked by 2 foot-pads in Chelsea Five-fields, within sight of the Patrol that was going before to guard 2 Gentlewomen cross the said fields, who first robbed him of 9 s. and some half pence, and then beat him in so violent a manner, that the blood gushed out of his Nose and Mouth, and made off undiscovered. Post Boy.

Mr. Gawen Nash, in his return in a Hackney Coach from Surry-street in the Strand, to Windmill-street, Picadilly, last monday night, was robbed by 3 Street-robbers of his watch, and 15 s. in money. Ibid.

Yesterday died at his lodgings in Leicester-fields, Dudley North, of Glenham-hall, in the County of Suffolk, Esq; Member of Parliament for the Borough of Orford in the said County. Daily Post.

Yesterday 4 highwaymen were taken, who lately robbed the Tunbridge Waggon, and shot the Carrier, who died of his wounds at the Lion and Lamb at Lewisham: they were carried before Mr. Justice Ladd, and committed to the Marshalsea, in order to take their trials at the next Assizes at Maidstone. One of them, we hear, has made himself an evidence against the other three. Morning Post.

The Town of Huntingdon being afflicted with the Small-pox, Sir John Bernard, and Robert Piggot, Esq; the two Candidates for Knight of the Shire, in the room of the Marquis of Harrington, now Duke of Devonshire, are obliged to erect Booths without the Town, for taking the poll of such Freeholders as have not had that distemper, or else must lose their Votes. Whether the Small-pox be more fatal than formerly, or the people more careful of their health and safety, I shall not pretend to determine. Certain it is, that the Plague it self could not spread a greater terror, or cause a greater interruption of trade and business than this does in all the Towns where it prevails. Ibid.

We hear that the Rev. Dr. Croxal (who preached before the house of Commons on the 30th of January sat, on these words, Take away the wicked from before the King, and his Throne shall be established in Righteousness,) is struck off the list of his Majesty's Chaplains. Whitehall Evening.

On monday morning two men who live by the nine Elms near Vauxhall, were apprehended and committed to the New Goal in Southwark, for several Robberies by them committed on Oxford Road; and, we hear, one of them has impeached a person concerned with them, who lives at Oxford. Ibid.

This day being the Anniversary of the Sons of the Clergy's feast, they proceeded in a body from Merchant Taylors hall in Threadneedle-street, to St. Paul's, where Mr. Green's new Te Deum, and Mr. Purcell's Jubilate, were vocally and instrumentally performed; after which they returned to the said Hall to dinner. St. James's Evening.

Late last night died in Albemarl-street the Rt. Hon. Catherine Countess of Westmoreland, Wife to Thomas Earl of Westmoreland, first Lord Commissioner for Trade and Plantations, and one of his Majesty's most Hon. Privy Council. She was Daughter and Heir to Charles Strynger, of Charlton, in the County of York, Esq; (and Widow of Richard Beaumont, of Whitby, in the said County, Esq;) but had no issue by Lord Westmoreland. London Evening.

Mr. Frederick du Pless, the German, who was some time since committed to Newgate by one of his Majesty's principal Secretaries of State, on account of a pamphlet, intitled, A Letter to a Member of Parliament in the North, hath given in the names of three persons to the Sollicitor of the Treasury, to be his sureties for his appearance to answer to such matters as shall be objected against him on the part of the Crown, in relation to the said pamphlet. Ibid.

The Hon. the Lord John Russel, Brother to his Grace the Duke of Bedford, arrived last monday morning at Dover from his travels. Ibid.

Yesterday at a meeting of the Royal Society Mr. Godfrey, a Chymift, Mr. Moore, Dr. Frobenius, a German, Dr. Kempe, a Physician of Hanover, and Dr. De Castro, an eminent Jew Physician, were admitted Fellows. This last had met with very great opposition, from some of his Faculty and Religion, who had descended to the lowest degree of calumny, to obstruct his election; but the Certificate of the falshood of some reports, signed by the chief of the Synagogue, being printed, soon silenced his adversaries, who upon the Ballot appeared 9 negative, in opposition to 58 affirmative. Daily Post.

Some of our Members, who are also Members of that illustrious Society, assure us, that in the foregoing article, for Kempe, we ought to read Hampe.

Mr. Benson, late one of the Secondaries of Wood-street Compter, is about to obtain an Act of Parliament for a divorce from his Wife, and to marry again. Ibid.

On tuesday fe'nnight a sad misfortune happened in the River Neath, in Glamorganshire, on board a small Vessel from Barnstaple, Peter Dassineau, Master, viz. two of the Mariners being in their hamocks, the coals under the hatches took fire, by which they were both suffocated and died, the one in 4 hours, and the other in 24 hours after. Ibid.

Yesterday was collected at the feast of the Sons of the Clergy, at Merchant Taylors Hall, 397 odd pounds, and considerable sums are expected to come in. Daily Journal.

I desire this learned Author would inform us what he means by odd pounds, and whether we ought not to read 397 pounds odd shillings?

On wednesday died at his house in Clement's-lane, ——— Beavour, M. D. Regius Professor of Phyfick in the University of Oxford, formerly Fellow of Pembroke College, native of Guernsey; a Gentleman of great learning, humanity, and skill in his profession. Ibid.

Saturday, Feb. 7. The home Circuit in Lent is settled as followeth;

Hertford, Monday, march 2, at Hertford.

Essex, Wednesday, march 4, at Brentwood.

Kent, tuesday, march 10, at Rochester.

Sussex, March 16, at East-grinstead.

Surrey, March 18, at Guildford. Courant.

On thursday last died at Tilney-hall in Hampshire, the Lady Craven, Wife of the Rt. Hon. the Lord Craven. Ibid.

The great cause that was to be heard yesterday before the Lord Chief Justice Eyre at the Court of Common-Pleas, between the Lord Abergavenny and Mr. Liddell, is deferred to the sittings after Term. Ibid.

The Rev. Mr. Coxead is chosen Warden of New College in Oxford, in the room of the Rev. Dr. Bigg, who was some time since chosen Warden of Winchester College. Ibid.

Yesterday the Coroner's inquest sat on the body of Lieutenant Whitacre, who was killed last wednesday night, at the Thistle and Crown in Charles Court in the Strand, in a Duel with Captain Fitzgerald, a half-pay Officer, and adjourned for a decision of their verdict till this day. The quarrel, it is said, proceeded from some ill words that were spoke by the Deceased, as they were playing at Cards, and Mr. Fitzgerald drawing his sword, the Deceased did the same, and they parried with each other for a few minutes. Ibid.

Yesterday a Cause was tried at the sittings at the Court of King's-Bench, Westminster, before the Lord Chief Justice Raymond, wherein Mr. Huttle, a Baker, in the Parish of St. James's, Westminster, was Plaintiff, and Mr. Shuttleworth, one of the Beadles of the said Parish, Defendant; upon an Action brought by the Plaintiff against the Defendant, for his having had criminal conversation with the Plaintiff's Wife; and upon hearing the evidences on both sides, the Jury gave a Verdict for the Plaintiff, and 100 l. damages. Ibid.

The Daily Post reads Huckle instead of Huttle, and Richard Shillitoe instead of Shuttleworth; and adds, that the Beadle was a person of real substance.

On thursday night last, about nine of the clock, died at his house near St. George's Church in Queen's square, by Ormond-street, the Rev. Dr. Nathaniel Marshal, one of the Prebendaries of Windsor, Chaplain in ordinary to his Majesty, and Minister of St. Vedast, alias Foster. Ibid.

The Daily Post adds, that he died, after a lingering illness of the Gout, at his Father's house in Swan-passage, near Ormond-street; also, that he was Lecturer of St. John the Evangelist, and one of the preachers at the new Chappel in May Fair; and that he hath left behind him eight Children, the eldest whereof is Rector of St. John the Evangelist aforesaid.

On the beginning of this week, Mr. Charke, a Comedian to the Theatre Royal in Drury-lane, was married to the youngest Daughter of Mr. Cibber. Morning Post.

Three Members of this Society are deputed to wait on the learned Mr. Cibber, to congratulate him on this happy occasion.

Whitehall, Feb. 7. Duplicates of the King of Spain's Cedulas for the restitution of Prizes, &c. pursuant to the late Treaty, being forthwith to be sent to the West-Indies; publick notice is given of it, that any persons who have claims in those parts from the Spaniards, may, if they think fit, make use of that opportunity of transmitting them thither; for which purpose they will apply to the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty. Gazette.

The Parliament granted in the year 1728, for defraying the expence of 12000 Hessians 241,259 l. 1 s. 3 d. for the year 1729. Even. Post.

The Hessian Troops in the British pay are to be continued another year, in like manner as before. Ibid.

Mr. Booth, the famous Tragedian, is relapsed very dangerously ill at his house in Charles-street, Covent-garden, and sees no Company. And a few days, since died Mr. Berriman, a Comedian of Lincoln's-Inn Theatre. St. James's Evening.

Last thursday one of the three Villains that robbed Mr. Gawen Nash last monday in a Hackney Coach, as he was going from Surry-street in the Strand to Windmill-street, Piccadilly, was taken; and, being carried before a Justice, was committed to New Prison. Ibid.

Monday, Feb. 9. The Courant and Daily Post in the Article of Miss Cibber's marriage differ from the Morning Post of Saturday, in reading Clark for Chark, and Miss Charlotte Cibber, Daughter to Mr. Cibber, for the youngest Daughter of Mr. Cibber.

We are assured, that what has been inserted in several News papers, relating to the Rev. Dr. Croxal's being struck off the List of the King's Chaplains, is groundless. Post Boy.

Tuesday, Feb. 10. On Saturday last came on the election of a Member of Parliament for the County of Huntingdon, in the room of the late Marquis of Hartington, now Duke of Devonshire. The Candidates were Robert Pigot, Esq; and Sir John Barnard. The votes stood as follows;

Robert Pigot, Esq; ——— 638.

Sir John Barnard, ——— 473.

Courant.

"By our Letters from Spain we are informed, that his Catholick Majesty designs to have shortly an interview with the King of Portugal: and the Spanish Court are apprehensive, that he intends to take that opportunity of abdicating the Crown a second time; to which he seems very much inclined." Post Boy.

On saturday last come on the election of a Member of Parliament for the Borough of Pontefract, in the County of York, in the room of John Lowther, Esq; deceased; when Capt. John Mordaunt, Nephew to the Right Hon. the Earl of Peterborough was chosen, notwithstanding what has been inserted in other papers: Sir Rowland Wynne having declined the Poll. Ibid.

Yesterday notice was given to all Peers, Peeresses, and Privy-Counsellors, for changing the Mourning on sunday the 15th instant. The Ladies are to leave off crape Hoods, shammy Shoes, and Gloves, and to wear black Silk or Velvet, fringed Linnen, white Gloves, black or white Fans and Tippets; the Men to leave off weepers, shammy Shoes and Gloves; and to wear black Cloth with Buttons or Velvet, fringed Linnen, black Swords and Buckles. Ibid.

We hear that Dr. Atkinson, a Man-midwife, is gone into Bow-lane, upon the death of Dr. Birch. Daily Post.

I am of opinion that the Dr. may stay there a good while, before we hear of him again.

——— Stephens is chose Knight of the Shire for Rutland, by a considerable Majority, in the room of the present Earl of Winchelsea and Nottingham. Daily Journal.

At the Court at S. James's the 8th day of February, 1729, Present, the King's most excellent Majesty in Council. His Majesty in Council was this day pleased to appoint John Gwynn, of Langoon, Esq; Sheriff for the County of Monmouth, in the room of Lewis Morgan, of Newport, Esq; deceased. Gazette.

Whitehall, Feb. 10. N.S. His Majesty has been pleased to constitute and appoint Colonel John Orfeur to be Deputy-Governour of South-Sea Castle, in the room of George Watkins, Esq; deceased. Ibid.

His Majesty having been pleased to appoint Dr. William Woodford, Fellow of the College of Physicians, and late Fellow of New College in Oxford, to be Regius Professor of Phyfick in that University, he had on sunday last the honour of kissing his Majesty's hand for the same. Ibid.

On thursday last died at Blackheath, near Greenwich, the Relict of the late Admiral Hosier, who recovered the Admiral's estate at Maidstone Assizes, some time since, by proving herself to be married to him. Ev. Post, S. Jame's.

I am well assured, that this vertuous Lady is neither dead, nor has recovered any part of the Admiral's estate.

This day came on the election of a Common-Council Man for Langburn Ward, in the room of George Champion, Esq; now Alderman of Bridge within, when Mr. Thomas Thompson, a Sadler in Fenchurch-street, was declared to have the Majority of hands, and there being no Poll demanded, he was immediately sworn in. Whitehall Even.

Wednesday, Feb. 11. Yesterday there was a Court of Aldermen at Guildhall, when Sir J. Wiliams, one of the present Sheriffs, made a motion to thank the Rev. Dr. Trapp for the Sermon, preached by him at St. Paul's upon Friday the 30th of January last, and to desire him to print the same; but it was carried in the negative. Post Boy.

The Daily Post adds, that the Aldermen, Parsons, Child, and Barnard were absent, attending the service of their Country in the house of Commons.

* * *

FOREIGN NEWS.

Thursday, Feb. 5. Yesterday arrived the Mail due from Holland.

Florence, Jan. 21. The Great Duke, who is in perfect health, has held several Privy Counsels within these few days; and sent back the express so often mentioned to have arrived from the Court of France. They write from Spain, that his Catholick Majesty had a Diamond Ring of great value, and some Indian Rarities, as a present to the Cardinal de Fleury; and that extraordinary Armaments are making in Spain, both by Sea and Land, to conduct Don Carlos to our Coasts with a numerous attendance of Ships and Men. Courant.

Stockholm, Jan. 25. N.S. The famous Josias Van Asperen is now here, and is likely to be made amends for the rebuffs he has met with elsewhere. In short, his project for erecting a China Company, which shall make settlements upon the Island of Madagascar, and other places in the East-Indies, has met with so good success, that the said Company have actually given orders for fitting out several Ships fit for that trade, and are engaging officers and sailors in their service. It is certain that our Merchants have subscribed considerable sums towards carrying on this undertaking. Post Boy.

This day we had a Mail from France.

Paris, Feb. 11. There will be this year after harvest three camps of horse and dragoons, viz. one on the Sambre, the 2d on the Meuse, and the 3d on the Saone, and during that time some alterations will be made in the regiments of horse. Evening Post.

A Process is actually before the Parliament, the subject whereof is new and very extraordinary, viz. about 25 years ago a married man was hanged at Layon in Picardy, and a surgeon of the place having bought the body of the executioner, carried it home, and finding that he was not dead, immediately let him blood, and took such care of him that he recovered; after which, he went into foreign Countries, where he gained considerable effects, and remained there till hearing of the birth of the Dauphin, and the pardon which the King designed to grant on that occasion, he returned to France, and put himself into Prison, according to the regulation on this subject, and has obtained the King's pardon; his wife believing him to be dead, married again some years after his supposed execution here, to one who is also possessed of considerable effects, and by whom she has had several children; her first husband has demanded her back, but she and her second husband oppose it, which is the ground of the Process. Whitehall Evening.

When I read this paragraph to Mrs. Quidnunc, she insisted on it strenuously, that as the woman was justly married to both husbands, so she ought to have them both.

Friday, Feb. 6. Milan, Jan. 21. N.S. We have received a list of the Imperial Regiments that are designed to march from Germany to Italy, and some guard houses at the gates of this City are clearing, that they may receive a greater number of forces. Courant.

Paris, Feb. 11. N.S. On the 8th instant the Royal Academy of Sciences elected M. Dagnessau de Valjoint, Brother to the Chancellor, to supply the place of honorary Member, vacant by the decease of M. de Valincour; but the place vacated by his death in the French Academy, is not yet filled up. Ibid. and Post Boy.

Naples, Jan. 10. N.S. Some time last month there was found in a Land belonging to the Prince de Triolo, an antique Stone, thought to be of Metellus's time. The Stone is sent to Vienna, to be reposited in the Emperor's Cabinet of Antiquities, but Signior Matthew Egitio, a famous Antiquarian here, has printed a long dissertation upon it, dedicated to his Imperial Majesty, wherein that learned Gentleman endeavours to prove, that the Stone in question contains a Prohibition of the Celebration of the ancient Bacchanalian Feasts here. Post Boy.

Saturday, Feb. 7. Yesterday arrived the Mail due from Holland.

Hamburgh, Feb. 7. N.S. The present Congress of Brunswick is like to meet with as bad success, as that which was formed there some years ago; for the difficulties increase, instead of diminishing. Courant and Post Boy.

Lucern, Feb. 4. N.S. They write from Italy, that the King of Spain has taken such measures with the Dukes of Tuscany and Parma, that they will not oppose the Introduction of 6000 Spanish Troops into their Countries. Post Boy and Daily Journal.

Monday, Feb. 9. Hague, Feb. 3. N.S. "His Imperial Majesty's Answer to the King of Great Britain's Letter, formerly mentioned, is far from rising up to the expectation we had conceived of it, and is indeed rather cold and indifferent, than suitable to the friendly expressions of the Letter: but we are yet persuaded, the Councils of Vienna are too wise, to precipitate themselves into a war with four of the most considerable powers in Europe." Post Boy.

Tuesday, Feb. 10. They write from Petersburg, that several Professors in their Academy of Sciences having received orders to repair to Moscow, it was thought his Czarian Majesty had a design to erect an Academy there. Courant.

Breslau, Jan. 30. This morning at two o'clock, we had a dreadful storm of Thunder and Lightning; whereby the Sand Tower was set on fire, and could not be extinguished till eleven in the forenoon; by which time the Tower was consumed to ashes, and the bells and chimes melted. Moreover, the Church and fine Organ were in extreme danger, by the falling in of the Tower; but, by good providence, the wind sat so as to blow the fire quite away from the houses. Evening Post.

Wednesday, Feb. 11. Yesterday arrived the Mail due from Holland.

Basil, Feb. 9. N.S. We have private Letters, which say the Crowns of France and Spain are using their utmost endeavours to bring the Court of Turin into the Treaty of Seville; in order to which, his most Christian Majesty has offered the King of Sardinia to procure him satisfaction, with regard to some lands which he claims in the Dutchy of Milan, and that Spain shall renounce the Reversion of Sardinia. Courant.

Prices of Goods at Bear Key on Monday.

per Quarter

Wheat ——— 24 to 31

Rye ——— 15 to 16

Barley ——— 12 to 16

Oats ——— 8 to 14 6

Horse Beans ——— 23 to 28

Hog Peas ——— 18 to 24

Boiling Peas ——— 27 to 29

Pale Malt ——— 17 to 21

Brown Malt ——— 17 to 20 6

Tares ——— 26 to 30

Coals ——— 23 s. to 24 s. per Chaldron.

Hops 1729 ——— 35 s. to 55s. per Hundred.

Rape Seed ——— 14 l. to 15 l. per Last.

Whitehall Evening.

On Wednesday Stocks were

South Sea 101. Ditto Annuities 105 3 4ths. India 177 3 4ths. Bank 139 1 half. 3 per Cent. 94 1 half. African 40. York Buildings 16 3 4ths. Royal Ex. 86 1 half. London Ass. 11 7 8ths. South Sea Bond, 3 l. 16 s. Pr. India Bond, 4 l. 16 s. Pr.

* * *

ADVERTISEMENTS.

BOOKS Printed and Sold by John Brotherton at the Bible in Cornhil.

Life of Oliver Cromwel, 8vo.

Collection of Novels, 12°. 6 Vol.

D' Anois Tales of the Fairies, 3 V. 12°.

Free Thoughts on Religion.

Pilgrim's Progress in 8°. with Cuts, 2 Vol.

Spectators, 8 Vol.

Prideaux Connection, 4 Vol.

Musical Miscell. 4 Vol. 8°.

The Dancing Master, by Mr. John Essex, 4°.

Boyer's Telemachus, 12°.

Gay's Fables, 8°.

Gordon's Geog. Grammar.

Boyer's Dictionary in 4°. or 8°.

Blais's Sermons, 5 Vol. 8°.

Shakespear's Plays.

Addison's Works, 4 Vol.

This Day is published,

BLUNT to WALPOLE: A familiar Epistle in behalf of the British Distillery.

——— And tho' I say it, there's never a woman in the parish that takes more care for an honest livelihood than my self. I turn my hand to any thing to get a penny: sometimes I sell things in Leaden-hall-market; and sometimes I do an odd chare at one house, and sometimes at another.———We market-women are up early and late, and work hard for what we have. We stand all weathers, and go thro' thick and thin. It's well known, that I was never the woman that spar'd my carcass, and if I spend three farthings now and then, in such simple stuff as we poor souls are glad to drink, it's nothing but what's my own; I get it honestly, and I don't care who knows it; for if it was not for something to chear the spirits between whiles, and keep out the wet and cold; alack-aday! it would never do! we should never be able to hold it, we should never go thorow-stitch with it, so as to keep body and soul together.———

Sessions-paper, May 1725.

Printed for J. Wilford in Stationers Court near Ludgate; and E. Bocket in George-yard near Lombard-street. Price 6 d.

Just Publish'd

And dedicated to his Royal Highness the Duke, and presented him by his Tutor, Mr. Phillips, and very graciously received,

TWenty seven moral Tales and Fables, French and English. Invented (for the Education of a Prince) by the late celebrated Archbishop of Cambray, Author of Telemachus. Digested into Sections and Periods, and disposed (after a new manner) for the Use of Schools, and the early Improvement of young Gentlemen and Ladies in Virtue and good Manners, as well as the Beauties of the French Tongue. To which is prefixed, an Essay on the Nature of Fable; extracted from Mons. de la Motte,

Science in gay attractive Fable lies,

And veil'd, the more invites her Lovers Eyes.

Pope's Miscell.

Printed and sold by S. Palmer and J. Huggonson in Bartholomew-close.

WHEREAS there has been lately printed, by Subscription, a History of Arianism and Socinianism, and some of the Impression is left unsubscribed for, they are to be sold, at the Subscription Price, by Mr. Gilliver, Bookseller, at Homer's Head over against St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet-street.

This Day is Publish'd,

TWO EPISTLES to Mr. Pope, concerning the Authors of the Age. By the Author of the Universal Passion. Printed for Lawton Gilliver, at Homer's Head in Fleet-street.

Where may be had,

A new Edition of the Dunciad, 8°, with some additional Notes and Figures.

Likewise the Art of Politicks, in Imitation of Horace's Art of Poetry, with a curious Frontispiece.―Risum teneatis amici.

And speedily will be published,

Vidæ opera omnia Poetica, quibus adjicitur ejusdem Dialogus de dignitate Rei-publicæ: ex recensione R. Russel, A.M. 2 Tom. 12mo.

* * *

LONDON: Printed and Sold by J. Roberts in Warwick-Lane, and at the Pamphlet-Shops of London and Westminster; and also at the Pegasus (vulgarly called the Flying-horse) in Grubstreet, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in.

(Price Two Pence.)


