The Grub-street Journal — January 15th, 1730

Exported from Wikisource on January 22, 2026

Lightly corrected.

* * *

The Grub-street Journal.

* * *

To be continued Weekly.

* * *

Thursday, JANUARY 15. 1730.

* * *

On cold December fragrant chaplets blow;

And heavy harvests nod beneath the snow. Dunciad. B. I.

* * *

The ODE for the New Year,

Which was Vocally and Instrumentally performed before their Majesties on the 1st Instant; and printed in several News-Papers.

RECITATIVO.

JANUS: the shining Round survey,

 Where all is pompous, all is gay.

[1] Hence far dull Cares with duller Spleen are flown.

 O! joyous Thou thy self appear,

5 To [2] welcome in the new-born Year

And in thy younger Face a Look of Smiles put on.

AIR.

Happy, happy, British Climes,

Fruitful of Saturnian Times!

How [3] fair arise their shady Woods!

10 How [4] smoothly flow their Silver Floods!

Crown'd with Ceres laughs each Field,

And [5] verdant Vines Meadows yield!

RECITATIVO.

But what are Charms of Woods, or Fields, or Meads,

To those more heav'nly Charms that Freedom spreads?

15From Freedom all our Tastes of Pleasure spring;

And the rich Source of Freedom is the King.

AIR.

Sweet are the Jes'min's breathing Flow'rs;

Sweet the soft-falling vernal Show'rs;

And sweet the Glooms the Grove affords;

20And sweet the Notes of warbling Birds:

But not the [6] Groves, nor Rains, nor Flow'rs,

Nor all the feather'd Songster's Pow'rs,

Can ever sweet or pleasing be,

O! lovely Freedom, without Thee.

RECITATIVO.

No wonder that so oft Britannia sought,

25 Thy blessings, Goddess, to attain;

No wonder Thee so oft the fearless sought,

 Thro' Seas of Blood and Hills of Slain.

AIR.

But let the Seeds of Peace,

Still more and more encrease:

30Let truth with Virtue meet;

And Mercy justice greet:

Let Friendship reign with Love,

As joyn'd they reign above.

[7] RECITATIVO.

35 With Harmony begin the Year;

 Such as may sooth the nicest Ear:

Such as the Royal Race may deign to hear.

CHORUS.

At Harmony the Day begun,

[8] Sing on, sing on, till Day is done;

40 And then [9] sing on still to a second Sun.

* * *

various readings in Lond. Jour. Jan. 10.

↑ Whence

↑ Hail the new born peaceful

↑ Thick rise

↑ Smooth flow

↑ Green Vistos

↑ Grove

↑ Chorus

↑ Play on, play on.

↑ Play on.

* * *

It presages no small happiness to our Society, to have the New Year opened, before the most august Assembly, with this incomparable Ode, composed by one of our worthy Members. To shew all its Beauties would require Remarks extended to as great a length, as the longest of Monsieur Dacier's upon any Ode of Horace. But being confined to a narrow compass, I shall only point out some of the principal Graces, and must leave the rest to the observation of others. The whole first Stanza is very fine, Where, to use the Author's own Words, all is pompous, all is gay: but the last Verse of it is so particularly beautiful, that tho' one change the order of the Words, and endeavour to reduce them to the prosaic style, yet they shine with equal lustre as in the Verse it self:

And put on in thy younger Face a look of Smiles.

When this was read in the Society, Mr. Poppy could not forbear breaking out into this poetic Rapture,

For this, great Bard, thou ought'st to wear the Crown,

And in thy learned Brows a wreath of Bays put on.

The Critics observe concerning Lyrick Poetry, That it is a loose and free way of writing, which seems to despise all sort of Method; that it affects Transitions Excursions, and Digressions, which appear to be made with no Art at all; that it neglects the connection of Sentences, and is much pleased with frequent Exclamations. These Rules are all exemplified in this Ode: and accordingly the 2d Stanza begins, Happy, happy, British climes! which has no manner of dependance upon the fore-going, but might as well have been placed before it. The excursion to shady Woods and silver Floods, &c. is admirable at this time of the Year; as will more fully appear from the Remarks upon the 4th Stanza.

The Sence of the 11th Verse is somewhat dubious,

Crown'd with Ceres laughs each Field.

Where Ceres may be taken either metonymically for Corn, or for the Goddess of Corn, as if each Field had been crown'd with her Hand. Both these Sences are very good: but if the latter be taken, we ought rather to read Crown'd by Ceres.

A trifling Objection has been raised against the next Verse upon the Word Visto, which is generally taken to mean a View or Prospect between Trees: and therefore it was matter of wonder, how verdant Meadows could 'yield Vistos. But the learned Lexicographer N. Bailey Φιλολογος, under the Word Visto, says only, Visto, a Prospect Italian.

In the next Stanza the excursion about Shady Woods, &c. is brought home to the purpose; and a comparison drawn between the Charms of sylvan scenes, and the Charms of Freedom, which are made infinitely superior to the former.

But what are charms of Woods, or Fields, or Meads,

To those more heav'nly Charms that Freedom spreads!

The Charms of Woods, &c are here allowed to be heav'nly; but the charms of Freedom are more heav'nly: and these more heav'nly charms are in a very poetical manner said to be spread by Freedom.

The 4th Stanza, which is a return to the sylvan Scene described in the 2d. is likewise an admirable imitation of that fine Speech of Adam to Eve in the 4th Book of Paradise Lost.

Sweet is the breath of Morn, her rising sweet,

With charm of earliest Birds; &c.

The Lyric Poet has indeed taken some of his Images from hence: But then he has cloathed them in a different poetical dress, and thereby made them his own. Fragrant the fertil Earth after soft Showers, is changed into soft-falling vernal Show'rs; and the charm of earliest Birds, into Notes of warbling Birds, and feather'd Songsters pow'rs. And tho' the air and turn of the thought are the same in both Poems; yet the long-winded Epic is here happily contracted into the Lyric strain. But in one respect the Epic Post is infinitely out-done by the Lyric. For the former puts there words into the mouth of Adam, when he was retiring to his Bower with Eve; who, as well as himself, had several of the objects then present to her Senses, and perhaps had observed them all that very Day. To speak of such things therefore was very obvious; and no more a proof of a Genius, than to talk of the goodness or badness of the Weather; which is generally done, when Persons are at a loss for discourse. But our incomparable Lyric, in the very depth of Winter, when we are all shivering with Cold, by a representation very seasonable on that account, entertains us with the united charms of Spring, Summer, and Autumn. As there is a great affinity betwixt Poetry and Painting, this gives us a sensible pleasure, not unlike that which we should take in viewing in the coldest weather some fine Landskip, in which the delights of the Country in the vernal, summer, or autumnal Seasons, are represented by an artful Hand. A Poet of a more timorous Genius would have taken great pains to have introduced the Seasons in their natural order, or just touched upon the pleasures of each. But our Author has no sooner mounted his Pegasus, but in despite of bad ways and weather, rides immediately into the Country, where he meets with shady Woods, silver Floods, breathing Flowers, vernal Showers, &c.

And if a Gardener, who by artificial heat produces Fruits or Flowers out of Season, is admired as an extraordinary Artist; by parity of Reason, is not that Poet worthy of our Admiration, who from the sole heat of his Fancy presents us with æstival Flowers upon New Years Day?

And as this last Stanza is imitated from John Milton: so the last Air is a fine imitation of that celebrated Lyric Poet John Hopkins; who in his Version of Ps. LXXXV. 10. has these beautiful Lines:

For truth and mercy there shall meet,

 in one to take their place:

And peace shall justice with kiss greet;

 and there they shall embrace.

But as according to the Proverb, All is well that ends well, our Author, like other artful Writers, has reserved his finest thoughts and numbers for the Chorus, in order to strike the Imagination, and leave a lasting impression upon the Audience. This is so inconceivably good, that I shall not pretend to add any Remark, which would rather obscure, than illustrate it. I shall therefore only join in Chorus with him, and sing:

 As Harmony the day begun,

 Sing on, sing on, till day is done;

And then sing on still to a second Sun.

BAVIUS.

* * *

LONDON, January 15.

Thursday, Jan. 8.

The Commission appointing George Forbes, Esq; (commonly called Lord Forbes) to be Captain General and Governor in chief in and over the Leeward or Charibee Islands in America, is preparing to pass the Sea's. Courant.

A Commission is ordered to pass the Seals for constituting the Hon. Joseph Sabine of Tring in Hertfordshire, Esq; Lieutenant General of his Majesties Forces, Governor of Berwick, and the Holy Island, and Colonel of the Welch Fuziliers, to be Governor of Gibraltar, in the room of the Right Hon. the Earl of Portmore lately deceased. Morning Post.

Friday, Jan. 9.

His Excellency the Marquis d' Aix, Envoy extraordinary from the King of Sardinia, having had his Audience of leave of their Majesties and the rest of the Royal Family, will set out this day on his return home. He is succeeded in the Character of Envoy extraordinary from his Sardinian Majesty, by the Chevalier Ossorio. Courant.

We hear his Excellency hath taken the House in Lincoln's-Inn Fields, where his Predecessor resided, to which there belongs a better and more commodious Chappel, than to any other Envoy of the Roman Catholick Communion. Daily Post.

On Tuesday Night last, several Persons were robbed going into St. George's Fields: One Woman in particular was robbed and thrown down into a Ditch; but she crying out, several People came out of their Houses with Lights, and took her out almost perished with cold. Two of the Villains had on red great Coats, and the other had on a light Drab Coat. Courant.

Yesterday at the East India Sale, about 100 lb. weight of Aquila Wood was put up at 10 s. and sold to Mr. John Hayward, an eminent Druggist, for 120 l. It was lately brought from India by Governor Adams; and is a kind of Gum, esteemed the richest Perfume in the World, and is found on an Island near China; in which Empire, for its delicate scent and scarcity, it is much prized by the Ladies, who generally have a small piece of it tied to their Fans. Daily Journal.

As one of our Members was reading the foregoing article in a Coffee-house; a Stranger to him observed, that it was improper to call a Wood a Gum; and added, that this Aquila Wood was called also Agallochum and Lignum Aloes; and that it was frequently mentioned in the sacred Writings; and was also an Ingredient in the Venice Treacle.

Saturday, Jan. 10.

We hear that a Comedy, called The Wife of Bath, written by Mr. Gay, having been revised and altered by him, is now in Rehearsal at the Theatre Royal in Lincoln's-Inn Fields, and will be acted in a few Days. Daily Journal.

Last Week a young Couple were married at Dover. The Bride seemed, during the Ceremony, to be under some extraordinary uneasiness; and after the same was over, and she returned to her own House, she was brought to bed of a Girl: So the Bride-men and Bride-maids stood Godfather and Godmother; and the Curate earned double Fees from very unexpected occasions. Ibid.

The Humours of Oxford, which we informed our Readers last Week from the Weekly Medley, had been rehearsed with great Applause, to a very small Audience; was acted last Night, with no Applause at all, before a great Audience.

Last Monday a Woman was found dead in a Coach-house, among old Lumber, the back-side of Church-lane, St. Giles's. Applebee.

The learned Dr. Zoilus thinks that there is an omission of the Copyist in this Place, and that we ought to read among other old Lumber.

Yesterday at the Sessions held for the City and Liberty of Westminster, a Bill of Indictment was found by the Grand Jury, against one Winch, a Constable, near St. James's Church, for assulting another Constable in the execution of his Office. Evening Post, St. James's, and London Evening.

Another Bill of Indictment was found against one Buckley, a Chairman, for assaulting and wounding two several Persons in the streets with a Hanger. And two other Bills against two Women Offenders, Eaton and Harvey, for keeping disorderly Houses, the one in Thug lane, and the other in Sherard street. St. James's, and London Evening.

Last Thursday Night between ten and eleven o' Clock, a Gentleman took a Hackney Coach at Temple-bar, in order to go to the General Post-Office in Lombard-street; and when he came into Fleet-street, over against St. Dunstan's Church, the Coach was stopped by two Footpads, who pulled him out of the Coach; and one of the Villains knocked him down with a Bludgeon, and the other began to rifle him: But a Watchman coming up to his assistance, they made off without compleating their design. Evening Post, and St. James's Evening.

This Morning between one and two o' Clock, the Linnen Draper's Shop in Middle Moor-Fields was robbed of Linnen to the Value of more than 30 l. The Rogues got in by cutting a hole in the Shutter (which was bloody) just big enough to put in a Hand, and drew out the Pin. The Man of the House had some time heard a noise, which he believed to have been at the next Door, which is the Sash Ale House, where they were brewing: But at length hearing something fall in the Shop, he got out of Bed; the Rogues however were made off with their Booty before he could get down. Whitehall Evening.

This Day several Felons were brought to Newgate, from other Goals, in order to be try'd at the ensuing Sessions at the Old Bailey. There are already above a hundred and twenty Felons, in the said Goal, besides a great many more expected from other Goals, to be try'd at the said Sessions. Ibid.

A Project is on foot, countenanced by many Members of Parliament and others, for establishing a Court of Conscience in Westminster Hall, for the Benefit of the poor of the said City and Liberty, and County of Middlesex. London Evening.

I am of opinion, that a Court of Conscience in Westminster-hall will be a great Benefit to the whole Nation.

Monday, Jan. 12.

On Friday last the Lady of the Right Hon. the Lord Malpas was brought to bed of a Son. Daily Courant.

Several reputed Street Robbers were taken last Saturday Night, and confined in the Round-house belonging to St. Martin's in the Fields in order to be examined as last Night, or this Morning: we hear, that one of the Gang who had been taken before, had impeached his Confederates. Ibid.

On Saturday last, three Men were secured in St. Martin's Round-house, for going into several Goldsmiths Shops under pretence of buying Gold Rings, and changing them for some Rings, which they had in their Pockets, made of a base Metal; and one of them impeaching many more, who follow the like Practice, as also Street-robbing and the Highway, two others were taken yesterday, and secured in the said Round-house, in order to be carried before a Bench of Justices this Day, to be examined: and there is great hopes of taking many more of the said Gang this Day. Post Boy

On Saturday last one Dowdle, alias Hayes, an Irishman, was apprehended near Charing-cross, for going into a Goldsmith's shop, under pretence of buying a Ring: the Man of the Shop shewed him several, but he made trifling Excuses that he did not like them, and so went off with two Gold Rings, leaving two Brass ones in their stead; he was pursued and carried to St. Martin's Round-house, where he has impeached several of his Accomplices, who by his Information are since taken, and this day they are to be carried before Justice Bourke, when he will make a full discovery of the Gang. Daily Post.

Yesterday several Street Robbers were taken, and being examined before a Justice of Peace, they we hear have given Information against the rest of their Gang, after which they were carried to St. Martin's Round-house, to be confined till this day for a farther Examination. Morning Post.

One day last Week, Sarah Townshend, who sometime ago was committed to the New Goal in Southwark, for Felony, was delivered of a Child, which he threw into a tub of Water, and stifled it; after which she threw it into the Necessary-house: which being found, the Coroner's Inquest has sat on the Body, and brought in their Verdict Wilful Murder. Courant.

This day at Noon there will be held a General Council at St. James's. Ibid.

This day at one o' Clock at Noon, will he held a Cabinet Council at St. James's; and in the after-noon at 3 a general one. Post Boy.

To-morrow both Houses of Parliament are to meet at Westminster, pursuant to his Majesty's Proclamation; when his Majesty will go to the House of Peers, and make a Speech to both Houses of Parliament. It was generally thought yesterday, that the Parliament would be prorogued or adjourned for some time. Ibid.

The following are to take their Places in the House of Peers this Session of Parliament, some by the deaths of their Fathers and other Relations, some by being of Age, and others by Patent, &c. viz. William Duke of Devonshire; Wriothesly, Duke of Bedford; Peregrine, Duke of Leeds; Daniel, Earl of Winchelsea and Nottingham; Sackville, Earl of Thanet; Charles, Earl of Sunderland; Other, Earl of Plymouth; Baptist, Earl of Gainsborough; Henry, Earl of Ferrers; James, Earl of Waldegrave; Francis, Lord Guildford; William, Lord Harrington; Dr. Robert Clavering, as Bishop of Peterborough; and Dr. John Harris, as Bishop of Landaff. Daily Post.

The Rev. Mr. Archdeacon Bridekoae is to preach before the Sons of the Clergy at St. Paul's, on Thursday the 5th of February next, the day appointed for their Feast; and we hear the Church Musick is to be Mr. Green's Te Deum, Purcell's Jubilate, and a new Anthem composed by Mr. Green. Post Boy.

Mrs. Maria Warren, who, upon the elevation of the famous Miss Fenton, perform'd the part of Polly Peachum in the Beggar's Opera, and was afterwards married to Mr. Nichols, a young Gentleman of an ample Fortune, but under Age, died a few Days since in the Country. Daily Post.

On Saturday last, Mr. Joshua Gee, being introduced by his Grace the Duke of Hamilton, presented to his Majesty the Copy of a Book, entitled The Trade and Navigation of Great Britain considered, &c. which his Majesty was pleased to receive very graciously: after which he presented a like Copy to her Majesty, being introduced by the Right Hon. the Earl of Grantham, her Majesty's Lord Chamberlain; as also a like Copy to his Royal Highness the Prince of Wales; and her Majesty and his Royal Highness were both pleased to receive them very graciously. Ibid. and Daily Journal.

Tuesday, Jan. 13.

His Majesty came this day to the House of Peers, and being in his Royal Robes, seated on the Throne with the usual Solemnity, Sir Charles Dalton, Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod, was sent with a Message from his Majesty to the House of Commons, commanding their attendance in the House of Peers; the Commons being come thither accordingly, his Majesty was pleased to make the following most gracious Speech. Gazette.

Last Week as a Servant Maid was sitting asleep by the Kitchen Fire at Col. Cathcarts in great Queen-street, Westminster, her Petticoats took fire; and before they could be extinguished, burnt her in a lamentable manner: but she is like to recover. Evening Post.

Wednesday, Jan. 14.

Yesterday about 11 o' Clock, the Corpse of the late Earl of Portmore was carried from his dwelling House in St. James's Square, with great funeral Solemnity, being preceded by a number of Gentlemen on Horseback with their Arms reversed, a led Horse with Escutcheons &c. and a great number of mourning Coaches: the whole Cavalcade, which extended from St. James's Palace to the end of St James's-street, proceeded in very good order to Weybridge in Surrey, the Place of Interment. Morning Post.

* * *

FOREIGN-NEWS.

Thursday, Jan. 8.

Zurick, Jan. 4. N.S. Private Letters from Paris advise, that the Court of France is at last determined to renew the Alliance with the Protestant Cantons, and to make them advantageous Proposals for that end. Daily Courant.

Brazil, Jan. 4. 'Tis generally believed here, that the French Ambassador at Soluthern will not make any farther Proposal for renewing the Alliance between the King his Master, and the 13 Cantons; but rather wait to see, whether the Cantons will not make some overtures towards it of their own accord. Ibid.

Brussels, Jan. 5. The Chevalier de la Merveille, Colonel in the Emperor's Service, who was sent for to Vienna, and was upon the point of setting out for that place, in order to be employed by his Imperial Majesty in the naval Affairs at Trieste, or else-where, was last Week arrested by his Creditors; which would not have happened, if he could have got his Accounts passed, and his Money paid him. That Gentleman made the first Settlement for the Emperor at Coblon; and was rewarded for the same with a Colonel's Commission by Land and Sea. Ibid.

Frankfort, Jan. 4. An Imperial Rescript has been dispatched to the Circles of the Upper Rhine, requiring them, that the Recruits, raised here and there in the Empire, be from time to time sent to the Frontiers of those Circles, to the end they might be in readiness, if need be, to march to Italy, or the Netherland. Daily Journal, and Morning Post.

Amsterdam, Jan. 6. The Letters from Brussels mention, that Colonel Chartres was come back thither, and endeavoured to find out a Person he had with him during his first stay there; whom he accuses to have robbed him of a Bill for above 300 l. Sterling, having put into his Box a forged Bill of Exchange, which the Colonel did not find out, till he went to receive the contents from the Banker, where he found that the Money had been already paid, upon the Bill which was stolen from him. Morning Post.

Friday, Jan. 9.

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from France.

Paris, Jan. 4. N.S. Two Men of War of 60 Guns each are building at Brest. Daily Courant.

By the Lottery of the Town-house of Paris, drawn the 9th inst, to the amount of 1,278,450 Livres, 9 Sols, 5 q. it is computed there is to the value of 170 000 Livres a year saved to the Government. Ibid

The reform of the Troops, which was some time ago talked of, is again postponed; and 'tis even reported, that Orders will be given for recruiting them. Morning Post.

Saturday, Jan. 10.

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from Holland.

Vienna, Jan. 4. N.S. It is reported, that the D. do Ripperda has found means to reconcile himself to their Catholick Majesties; and that he will speedily return to Madrid. Courant, and Post Boy.

Francfort, Jan. 11. According to some Advices, the Princes of the Empire will furnish the Emperor with 90,000 Men in case of need. Ibid.

Hague, Jan. 13. 'The news of the Czar of Muscovy's marriage to the Princess Dolgorucki, is very disagreeable to several Courts of Germany; but more especially to one, where they seem'd to lay no little stress upon an Alliance of that sort.

'The Printer of the Utrecht Gazette in French, having incurred the displeasure of his Superiors, is forbid to put out any more Papers during a certain term, according to the methods usually practised in this County.———For tho' this be famous for a land of Liberty; yet there is such a manifest difference made amongst us between Liberty and Licentiousness, that he that runs may read. And if a Man is in jeopardy here now and then for writing in plain contradiction to the respect due to Magistrates; he is much more so, that observes not the Decorum paid to crown'd heads; and more yet, the Wretch that dares to attack, by word of mouth, or by writing, the fundamentals of the Christian Religion.

'Upon the last Express that arrived at Hanover from London, a Courier was immediately dispatched to Cassel; and Gen. Bulow, who commands the Troops of the Electorate of Hanover, made a new disposition of them. The Officers are moreover ordered to augment their Companies; and there is much talk of raising new ones. These are Steps, which seem not to presage the continuation of the Peace, by accommodating matters between the Courts of Hanover and Berlin.' Post Boy.

Jan. 17. The Eyes of all Europe are turned towards Italy, upon the prospect of an approaching War in that Country. For it is apparent, that the Princes and States thereof are generally against the settlement of Don Carlos amongst them, for the present at least; and that the Emperor seems to be of the same opinion, having ordered three Regiments of Foot, five of Cuirassiers, and four of Dragoons, to begin their march thither. Ibid.

Hanover, Jan. 10. Several Foreigners of distinction are arrived here to partake of the Diversions of the Carnival, which on the 6th inst, was opened at the Town-house, where there will constantly be a Ridotto every Monday and Thursday. On Sundays a French Play will be acted at the Palace; where there will be a Concert, and an Assembly every Wednesday; and a German Play on Tuesdays and Fridays. Daily Post.

Paris, Jan. 9. It is advised from Lisbon, that the Portugueze have discovered in Brazil, not far from the River Janiero, a Mine that abounds with Diamonds. Ibid.

Brussels, Jan. 12. The late Earl of Mar arrived here on the 8th, and set out Yesterday for Antwerp. Ibid.

The uneasiness at the future landing of Don Carlos's Troops in Italy, is so great in those parts, that even the King of Sardinia, tho' at a pretty great distance from the places contended for, is endeavouring all he can to prevent it; and for that purpose has made several proposals to the Imperial Court. Weekly Medley.

Paris, Jan. 14. On the 8th, the Abbot do Verthamon do Chavagnac, lately nominated to the Bishoprick of Montauban, was consecrated by the Archbishop of Paris, &c. Whitehall Evening.

Monday, January 4.

Yesterday arrived the Mails due from Flanders.

Dresden, Jan. 8. N.S. On the 5th the King of Poland, our Elector returned hither from Leipsick. We are assured, that at the instances of the Polish Grandees, his Majesty has taken the resolution to issue Writs for the meeting of the General Dyet of the Kingdom about Easter. Daily Courant.

Ratisbon, Jan. 9. Some days ago the B. of Kempstree's Brother was married at a place not far from this City: most of the company who were entertained on that occasion, fell sick presently after, and the Bishop, the Bridegroom, and five other Gentlemen are since dead. This makes it suspected, that the Wine was poisoned, or some such villany; and this affair is ordered to be strictly inquired into. Ibid.

Francfort, Jan. 11. A Society of Merchants at Milan have presented to the Emperor, a Project for digging a Canal, to draw off the Waters of the Adige, and render it navigable as far as Ostiglia; by which Goods may be conveyed to Trieste by water. Ibid.

Vienna, Jan. 4. Our Letters from the frontiers unanimously agree, that the Turks push on their military Preparations with all possible diligence. On Friday a fire broke out at Presburg, but was prevented from spreading, by pulling down two Houses. Post Boy.

The Daily Post, and Daily Journal say, that a great part of the City of Presbourg was reduced to Ashes.

* * *

Prices of STOCKS on Wednesday.

South Sea 105 3 8ths a 1 half. Ditto Annuities 105 5 8ths. India 188 1 4th. Bank 139 1 4th. 3 per Cent. 97 1 4th. African 46. York. B. 19 3 4th. Royal Ex. 88. London Ass. 11 3 4ths. Mill. B. 106. Bank Cir. 1 half prem. S. S. Bond, 4 l. India Bond, 5 l.

* * *

ADVERTISEMENTS.

This Day is Publish'd,

Arrian's History of Alexander's Expeditions.

TRanslated from the Greek with Notes Historical, Geographical, and Critical. By Mr. Rooke. In two Vol.

To which is prefix'd,

M. Le Clerc's Criticism upon Quintus Curtius, and some Remarks upon Mr. Perizonius's Vindication of that Author.

Printed for T Worral, at the Judges Head in Fleet-street; J Gray, at the Cross Keys in the Poultry; L Gilliver, at Homer's Head in Fleet-street, and R. Willock, at Sir Isaac Newton's Head in Cornhil.

* * *

Just Publish'd

(The Second Edition of)

CHYMICAL LECTURES: In which almost at the Operations of Chymistry are reduced to their true Principles, and the Laws of Nature. Read in the Museum at Oxford, 1704. By John Friend, M. D. Englished by J. M.

To which is added,

An Appendix, containing the Account given of the Book in the Leipsick Acts; together with the Author's Remarks thereon.

Printed for Christian Boyer, at the Rose in Pater noster row.

Where may be had just publish'd (beautifully Printed at Cambridge in Folio)

The Rev. Mr. Henry Stebbing's, Polemical Tracts.

* * *

BOOKS Printed and Sold by John Brotherton at the Bible in Cornhil.

Life of Oliver Cromwell, 8vo.

Collection of Novels, 12°. 6 Vol.

D' Anois Tales of the Fairies, 3 V.12°.

Free Thoughts on Religion.

Pilgrim's Progress in 8°. with Cutts, 8 Vol.

Spectators, 8 Vol.

Prideaux Connection, 4 Vol.

Musical Miscell. 4 Vol. 8°.

The Dancing Master, by Mr. John Essex, 4°.

Boyer's Telemachus, 12°.

Gay's Fables, 8°.

Gordon's Geog. Grammar.

Boyer's Dictionary in 4°.or 8°.

Blais's Sermons, 5 Vol. 8°.

Shakespear's Plays.

Addison's Works, 4 Vol.

* * *

This Day is Publish'd,

A Collection of Tracts on various Subjects. Written by Mr. Tho. Chubb.

Printed for Tho. Cox, at the Lamb under the Royal Exchange.

* * *

LONDON: Printed and Sold by J. Roberts in Warwick-Lane, and at the Pamphlet-Shops of London and Westminster; and also at the Pegasus (vulgarly called the Flying-horse) in Grubstreet, where Advertisements are taken in.

(Price Two Pence)


