The Grub-street Journal — January 29nd, 1730

Exported from Wikisource on May 11, 2026

Lightly corrected.

* * *

Numb. IV.

The Grub-street Journal.

* * *

Thursday, JANUARY 29. 1730.

* * *

——— What street, what lane but knows

Our purgings, pumpings, blanketings, and blows?

In every loom our labours shall be seen;

And the fresh vomit run for ever green. Dunciad, B. II.

Wednesday, Jan. 28.

Mr. Secretary acquainted the Society, that he had received a Letter from an eminent Bookseller; which by their Orders he read, as follows;

SIR. Covent-Garden, Jan. 23, 1730.

UPON the publication of the first Journal of your Society, I went to three or four Coffee-houses, in hopes of seeing it; but met with a disappointment, not uncommon upon the first appearance of a new Paper. Soon after this, I asked the opinion of a learned Gentleman who writes for me, concerning it; who assured me, that it was a very silly Paper, without one dram of wit; and that some ingenious Friends of his, who meet at a Coffee-house near the Change, had pronounced its doom, That it could not live a week, and that number the first would infallibly be number the last.

This has proved a very false conjecture; and upon reading the three numbers already published, I am forced to dissent from those learned Gentlemen, as much in the former, as in the latter part of their opinion. For I think your Journal may not unfitly be compared to a Raree-Show, which, as well as those who carry it, has a very plain and mean external appearance; but if we look into it intently, the prospect inlarges by degrees, and gives us a most surprising and delightful entertainment, successively presenting to our view the greatest variety of nature and of art. The thoughts of the Town concerning this Raree-Show are very various: which has united all mine at present in this one, not to lose any time in making application, by you, to the learned Society, for the favour and honour of being appointed their Bookseller. An honour, for which it would have been a great presumption to sollicite, without some foundation for such pretensions. On which account, that natural backwardness and modesty, which has been a great disadvantage to me on many occasions, would have likewise restrained me from putting my self forward on this, did I not humbly conceive, that in many respects I may justy hope for a preference to any other competitor.

For I can, with the greatest veracity, and without the least vanity, affirm, that no one person in the whole fraternity of Booksellers, has so much promoted the interest of your members in particular, and consequently of the whole Society in general, as my self. No man ever employed so great number of them, within the same compass of time; or payed them so generously, as I have done. And for the truth of this I appeal to those Gentlemen themselves; and to you, Sir, in particular.

I dare challenge the most eminent of the trade to shew a catalogue of books of his own printing, equal to that which I am ready to produce. Let the compositions of levity be counted by number, and those of gravity examined by weight; the Stock of my Antagonist will be found deficient in the sum total, and deceitful upon the balance.

Those who have made the greatest figure in our way have generally run chiefly upon some single branch of Science, as Divinity, Physic, Law, Poetry, &c. and have frequently raised an estate, by going on servilely and stupidly in one track of business. But, moved by nobler views, and having a laudable ambition to become famous in the Commonwealth of learning, I scorned to confine my self to any one of its parts, but endeavoured to the utmost of my power to promote it in all. And tho' Biography, secret History, natural Philosophy, and Poetry, were my chief favourites; yet no part of literature can complain, that it has been disregarded, much less intirely neglected by me. And, I believe, a perfect Encyclopedia of Arts and Sciences may be collected solely from the books which I have published.

This may seem a paradox to those, who form a judgment of the number of books printed for me, by seeing my name in the Title Page; and may thence be apt to conclude, that where that does not appear, I was not at all concerned. This is a very uncertain way of judging: there being a great many cases, in which it is not at all proper, either for an Author, or a Bookseller, to put his name to the book he publishes. And I can evidently prove, whenever it shall be deemed necessary, that I have actually printed and sold as many books under fictitious names, or under none at all, as under my own. By which conduct of mine, those which were before kept up at an exorbitant price, have been put into a great many hands, at a moderate rate, to the great advancement of learning and knowledge. This I always preferred to my own private emolument, and for the sake thereof, have exposed my self to continual dangers and losses.

In short, I may venture to affirm, that the mystery of bookselling has been carried to a greater height by me, than by any, either of my Predecessors, or Contemporaries; and that I have outgone every one of them in his own particular way. I had gained so great an ascendant over Authors, that great numbers were always ready to write upon any subject whatever, by my advice and direction; for which I always gratified them in a handsome manner. And as for those, who, out of private views, declined my acquaintance, and refused me their copies on any terms I could offer, these I obliged to write for me gratis; and published, and sold many fine compositions, both in prose and verse, under their names.

This extraordinary way of trade, as it gained me the admiration of the world, so it raised against me the envy of many Booksellers, and the enmity of many Authors; which had likely to have proved fatal to me. For one of the latter, having invited me to a Tavern, under pretence of business, infused poison into the wine: but thro' the happiness of my constitution, and the protection of the divine providence, that which was designed for my destruction, contributed to my health, working off only as a strong Emetic and Purge, and so proved to be Physic instead of poison. This villainous attempt upon my Life was owing to Popery; a religion (if it may be so called) which teaches its votaries to do evil that good may come of it, to keep no faith with Heretics, and to make use of private doses and daggers.

Not long after this, upon an invitation from the King's Scholars, I went to Westminster; where I was treated in a most barbarous and inhumane manner; without the least regard to the sacred ground on which the College stands, or to the vicinity of the Abbey, of the King's most antient Palace, and of the Courts of Judicature; which formerly were, and ought still to be, secure places of sanctuary and refuge to the innocent. I used my utmost endeavours to get some satisfaction for this outrageous violence: but as if Justice was fled from Westminster-hall, as well as piety from Westminster-abbey, I could meet with no Lawyer who would undertake my cause, tho' I did not pretend to consult any in forma pauperis.

And as the first attempt upon my person was made by a profest Papist; so I have all the reason in the world to believe, that the second was approved, if not incouraged, by a late Bishop, who once made a bitter invective against me in the House of Lords, and was since banished for holding a treasonable correspondence with the Pretender. So that under these afflictions, so grievous to flesh and blood, I had this consolation, that I suffered as a good Protestant by the Friends of Popery and arbitrary Power; and that my greatest enemies were likewise the most inveterate enemies of our constitution in Church and State.

But that which gave me the most sensible affliction was, that by their false representations they were at last able to draw upon me a prosecution from the Government, to which I have always been so well affected. So that instead of admitting me into a share in printing the Gazette, Votes, &c. for my good services, as I had just reason to expect, I was advanced to a station, to which, tho' very conspicuous, I had no ambition to aspire. However, I have now got over the sense of that disgrace, as it appears in the eye of the world; and being conscious to my self of having done nothing that is shameful, am really ashamed of nothing. And in all my troubles I have found That true by experience, which I declared to several persons after a late fit of sickness, That nothing can support a man so well under any affliction as the testimony of a good Conscience.

This short account of what I have done and suffered in extending the liberty of the press, the source of all our other liberties, might be considerably inlarged by many more particulars. But what I have already touched upon, will, I trust, set my actions and sufferings, as a Bookseller, in a true light, superior to any other of the profession; and draw upon me the favourable regards of your honourable Society.

Give me leave to mention one thing more, which, even on supposition that the balance was at present even, must necessarily, as I imagine, turn the scale on my side. I have my self written many Things, both in prose and verse, which have been well received by the Town; and, from the style and manner of them, have been thought to be the productions of some of the most eminent Grubæan Sages.

It is not uncommon, for ingenious persons in this great City, whose heads have been a little touched by their misfortunes in trade, or otherwise, to set up for Authors, and to make application to become Members of your Society; as if it were a kind of hospital, founded for the reception of persons of crazy intellects, and broken fortunes. On the contrary, in the full tide of business and reputation, and in the full vigour of understanding, I on all occasions shewed the greatest veneration for your learned body. And yet, after all, I am not so ambitious as to desire to be admitted as a Member, on the merit of being an Author: but shall think all the pains I have taken or felt, either in mind or body, well repaid, if by your favour the Title of Bookseller to the learned Society of Grub-street shall be conferred upon,

SIR,

Your most obliged, obedient,

And humble Servant,

KIRLEUS.

After the reading of this Letter, the Chairman proposed, That since the choice of a Bookseller was a thing of great importance, it might not be made precipitately; but that all the Members should have time to consider maturely of it. In the mean while, to shew the great regard the Society had to the extraordinary merits of Mr. Kirleus, which had been represented by him in so elegant a manner, he thought it very proper, that this Letter should be published in the Journal of to-morrow. Which was ordered to be done accordingly.

* * *

LONDON.

I cannot but wonder at our Brethren the Authors of the Universal Spectator, who in the Daily Post of Friday have presumed to advertise, that their Paper contains the best Advices, both Foreign and Domestick, particularly Home News, in which they have the assurance to say, their Paper exceeds all the other Journals. It is an unpardonable Insolence in a private club of Authors to speak thus highly of their own Performance, when they know there is a Journal published by the publick Authority of this Society, of which they are members. Were it true, that the sale of their paper is of late greatly encreased, as they pretend, I am of opinion, they would have no occasion to take the pains to tell it us in their advertisement.

Jeffery Quidnunc.

Thursday, Jan. 22. His Majesty hath been pleased to grant unto his Royal Highness the Prince of Wales, full Power and Authority to constitute and appoint, by his Letters Patents under his great seal, from time to time, a Chancellor, Commissioners, Counsel learned in the Law, Auditors, Receivers, and other his Officers and Ministers, of his Honours, Manors, Lordships, &c. Courant.

We hear that Mr. Justice Denton is appointed Chancellor to his Royal Highness, and keeper of his great seal. Ibid.

Yesterday the Rt. Hon. the Earl of Winchelsea and Nottingham took his place in the House of Peers. Ibid.

Robberies are so very frequent, that 'tis dangerous traveling the Roads by day, and in the Streets by night. Flying Post.

On Tuesday last some Footmen insulted a noble Lord at St. James's, and were put under arrest for several hours, and afterwards discharged upon their submission. Daily Post.

Yesterday ended the scrutiny on the Poll for Common-Council-Men for Vintry Ward, when the following persons were declared duly elected, viz. Mr. Edmund Trench, Deputy, Mr. Wm. Rous, Mr. Robert Kid, Mr. Christopher Cheesborough, Mr. Tho. Gregg, Mr. John Harbin, Mr. Sam. Allen, Mr. Stephen Stew, and Mr. Daniel Towne. Daily Journal.

This Morning a General Court was held by the Governors of St. Bartholomew's hospital, when was present the Rt. Hon. the Lord Mayor, President, and several others the Governors; at which time Samuel Palmer, Esq; a very eminent Surgeon, and a Gentleman of great worth, was unanimously elected Treasurer of the said hospital, in the room of Robert Witham, Esq; deceased; he was proposed by Sir John Williams, Knt. one of the present Sheriffs, who in a very eloquent Speech recommended him as worthy of so considerable a trust. London Evening.

Friday, Jan. 23. Yesterday two Men stood in the Pillory in Lincoln's-Inn-Fields, pursuant to their sentence at Hicks's-Hall, for going about with a pretended Brief, to collect Money for losses by fire. Courant.

The same day a Person was committed to the new Goal in Southwark, for that he and two others, who made their escapes, broke into Lambeth Church with an intent to rob the same. Ibid.

On Wednesday last John Birch was committed to New Prison by Justice Philips, on suspicion of robbing on the Highway, (in company with two others not yet taken) Richard Tridgon, Edward Penny, and John Blancy, of 25s. and stripping them almost naked. Ibid.

The Mails due from France and Holland came in Yesterday; but the latter affords very little matter, being filled with the Articles of Peace published here a Fortnight ago. They mention young Mr. Walpole to be arrived at Venice, with some other English Gentlemen. The Emperor has made the young Prince of Savoy, whose name is Eugene, a Knight of the Order of the Golden Fleece, telling his Uncle, He hoped to find in that young Gentleman another Prince Eugene of Savoy. It is now said General Zumjungen is to command the Imperial Army in Italy. Post Boy.

On Wednesday last ended the scrutiny of the Poll for the Election of a Common-Council-Man for St. Faith's Precinct in Castle-Baynard Ward, in the room of Mr. Osborn, who resigned; the Candidates were, Mr. Cordwell, City-Carpenter, and Mr. Nourle, an eminent Surgeon; the former carried it by a considerable Majority; whereupon Mr. Alderman Barber declared him duly elected, and he was sworn in accordingly. Daily Post.

On Wednesday last a Welshman and an Irishman were carried to the Roundhouse for stealing a pair of Shoes out of a Cellar in Chandos-street, and were there charged with several other Felonies; whereupon they were committed to the Gate-house by Justice Beaver. Daily Journal.

It is probable these worthy Gentlemen took the Shoes only with a design of showing them in their own Countries as a Curiosity.

On Wednesday last an aged couple were married at Richmond Church, the Bridegroom being no less than 74, and the Bride 80 Years of Age. Morning Post.

Saturday, Jan. 24. At the Court at St. James's, January 22, 1729.

Present the King's most excellent Majesty in Council.

His Majesty in Council was this day pleased to appoint the following Sheriffs, viz.

Bucks, George Franklin, of Haddenham, Esq;

Dorset, Sydenham Williams, of Harrington, Esq;

Derby, William Hodgkinson, of Ashover, Esq;

Gloucester, Samuel Spheppard, of Avening, Esq;

Lincoln, Thomas Pindar, Esq;

Northampton, John Ward, Esq;

Suffolk, Sir Thomas Allin, Bart.

Warwick, Samuel Stephenson Alleyne, Esq;

South Wales.

Brecon, Lewis Harcourt, of Davy-Park, Esq;

Gazette.

Yesterday at noon ended the Poll for a Representative in Parliament for the Borough of Southwark, which stood thus,

Thomas Inwen, Esq; ——— 800

Richard Lewin, Esq; ——— 540

Courant.

Last night the Poll ended for a Member of Parliament for the Borough of Southwark, when it stood thus;

For Thomas Inwen, Esq; ——— 826

Richard Lewin, Esq; ——— 540

———

Majority 286

And Mr. Inwen was accordingly declared to be duly elected. Post Boy.

The Daily Post, Journal, and Morning Post, agree with the Post Boy.

On Wednesday came on the Election of a Representative in Parliament for Banbury, in the room of Francis North, now Lord Guildford, when Toby Chansey, Esq; was elected. Courant.

On Thursday night a Countryman that came to town with Sir John Grosvenor from Westchester, was knocked down in Dirty-lane by 3 Street Robbers, who took from him 30 Guineas that were sewed up in the wast part of his Breeches. Ibid.

We are sorry that the man should have any wast part in his Breeches, and fear our Author has a wast part in his Hat.

On sunday last died at Nacton-Hall in the County of Suffolk, the Lady Rhoda Cavendish, Relict of the Rt. Hon. the Lord Henry Cavendish, Brother to the late Duke of Devonshire, and Sister to Thomas Cartwright, Esq; of Aynho in Northamptonshire. Post Boy.

Yesterday being the first Day of Term, the several Persons bound over on account of Pamphlets and News-Papers, appeared upon their Recognizances at the King's-Bench Bar, Westminster, and were all continued. Ibid.

Mr. Thomas Bambridge and Mr. Richard Corbet appeared upon their Recognizances, for the Appeal that is lodged against them by the Widow Castell, for the murder of her Husband, and their Appearance was recorded. Ibid.

Yesterday morning the body of one Woolridge, a working Silversmith, was found dead in a ditch in Stepney-fields, with his throat cut from ear to ear, and his Coat and Wastecoat, Buckles and Money, were all taken away; which gives room to imagine that he was first rifled and then murdered. Ibid.

The same day Mary Friendly was committed to Newgate, for stealing 4 silver spoons, value 48 s. and a silver salt, value 16 s. from her Master, Mr. Thomas Jaines. Ibid.

Monday, Jan. 26. last Friday, as soon as the election was over, and Mr. Inwen duly chosen, and returned by the Bailiff to serve in Parliament for the Borough of Southwark; he distributed large sums of Money among the poor, and released all the Debtors confined in the Compter Prison; and upon their discharge, gave each of them a Guinea to provide themselves Necessaries for the present. Post Boy.

On Tuesday last came on the Election for a Member of Parliament for the Borough of Andover, in the County of Southampton, in the room of the Rt. Hon. the Earl of Portmore, when William Guidot, Esq; was chose without opposition. Ibid.

On Thursday last came on the Election for Member of Parliament for the Borough of Boston in Lincolnshire, in the room of Henry Pacey, Esq; deceased; and upon casting up of the books the Poll stood thus;

The Rt. Hon. the Lord Colraine ——— 70

Mr. Wood ——— 40

Mr. Langton ——— 17

Mr. Marten ——— 13

Ibid.

On Friday last died at Epsom in the County of Surrey, the Rt. Hon. the Countess of Yarmouth, second Wife to the Earl of Yarmouth, aged upwards of 80 Years: She was suddenly taken ill last Tuesday night: We hear that by her death a small Pension reverts to the Crown. Daily Post and Journal.

The Undertakers of the great Sewer between Charing-cross and Cleveland Court, St. James's, have had 3000 l. advanced them by the Commissioners of the said Sewer. Ibid.

On Friday night last died Mr. Finch, Keeper of the Guy of Warwick Ale-house in the Old Bailey, who, 'tis said, was to be a material Evidence against Mr. Bambridge and Richard Corbet, at their Tryals upon the Appeal against them for the murder of Mr. Castel, which comes on this day at the Court of King's-Bench at Guildhall, before the Lord Chief Justice Raymond. It being remarkable that his death should happen just before the Tryals of the abovesaid Persons, a certain Physician has, at the request of some honourable Persons, been to see the body, and 'tis said the Coroner's Inquest will sit upon it. Morning Post.

Tuesday, Jan. 27. Last Saturday night some Rogues broke into the House of Mr. Butler, a Sugar-Baker on Bennet's Hill, near Doctor's Commons; but the servants hearing a noise, called in the Watch, and one of the fellows was taken in the Cellar drinking small Beer and Sugar; whereupon he was taken into Custody and examined, and, we hear, he has impeached another, who was confederate with him. Courant.

Yesterday one Waller stood in the Pillory at Charing-cross, for being concerned with another in counterfeiting Half-pence. Ibid.

Yesterday came on at the sitings of the Court of King's-Bench, Guildhall, the Tryal of Mr. Bambridge, late Warden of the Fleet, and Mr. Corbet, upon the Appeal of the Widow Castell. The Council for the Appellant were, Mr. Reeves, Mr. Lee, Mr. Fazakerley, and Mr. Filmer. For the Appellees, Mr. Serjeant Darnell, Mr. Serjeant Hawkins, Mr. Serjeant Eyre, Mr. Kettleby, Mr. Wynne, and Mr. Strange, &c. but the said Tryal lasting very late, we cannot give any certain account of the issue. Ibid.

The Post Boy adds, that this Tryal was before the Lord Chief Justice Raymond; that it lasted till 12 at night; and that the Jury, after withdrawing a few Moments, acquitted them both. The Daily Post makes no mention of it. The Daily Journal agrees with the Post Boy. The Morning Post refers the Reader to his next for the issue thereof.

A new company, for managing Funerals, is erecting in this city, composed of various kinds of tradesmen. Daily Post.

I suppose this is found necessary, on account of the late great encrease of Physicians, vulgarly called Jockey Doctors.

The Account published in our last, that by the death of the Countess of Yarmouth a small pension reverts to the Crown; we are since informed the same is false, and without Foundation. St. James's Evening.

Yesterday died John Birch, M. D. and a noted Man-midwife, in Bow-lane. London Evening.

Wednesday, Jan. 28. The Daily Post adds to the foregoing article, that he is succeeded in his business by Dr. Brooke of the same place, a person of known merit and abilities in his Profession.

Yesterday George Champion, Esq; was sworn in the Court of Aldermen, Alderman of Bridge-ward within. Daily Journal.

On Friday last ended the scrutiny on the Poll for Common-Council-Men of Langbourn-Ward, when Mr. Champion, Mr. Deputy Gabriel Smyth, Sir George Caswell, Mr. Joseph Hankey, Mr. James Martin, Mr. Thomas Hoare, Mr. Wm. Hawys, Mr. Sam. Travers, Mr. Tho. Oyles, and Mr. Wm. Pepys were declared duly elected. Ibid.

Edingburgh, Jan. 9. 'Tis said Orders are come for shutting up the Meeting houses of the Nonjurant Clergy. Courant, Jan. 27.

Dublin, Jan. 20. On Friday last at the Tholsel there was a general Assembly of the Rt. Hon. the Lord Mayor and Common-Council of this City, who generously and unanimously agreed to present that truly worthy Patriot the Rev. Dr. Swift, Dean of St. Patrick's, with the Freedom of this City, in a gold Box, made for that purpose, on which is engraved the City Arms. Post Boy, Jan. 27. and Morning Post.

* * *

FOREIGN NEWS.

Thurday, Jan. 22. Hague, Jan. 23. The Consent of the Province of Groningen to the Accession of the Treaty of Seville was transmitted hither yesterday, as was expected, and this day the Conclusion was taken in the Assembly of the States General for the Ratification of it. Daily Post.

Tangier, Jan. 2. Muly Abdallah is now actually King of Fez and Morocco, being owned in that quality, as well by the Whites, as the Blacks, which last he hath earnestly exhorted to live in Friendship with the former, which they begin to do, so that the King wants only the the subjection of the Kingdom of Sufa, in order to fix his residence at Mequinez; the great Treasure, left by old Muly Ishmael at his death, has been so exhausted by Abdallah, as well as the 3 other Sons, who fought for the succession of the Crown, that there remains in the Treasury only some old pieces of Plate and Jewels; Muly Abdallah, according to antient custom, in order to employ the Soldiery, designs to undertake the siege of Ceuta, and, if possible, that also of Melilla, as soon as he shall be truly settled in his Government. Morning Post.

This day we had 1 Mail from France, and from Holland.

Francfort, Jan. 22. We have advice from Stambergen in Bavaria, that 3 Imperial Regiments, who are to march into Italy, under the command of General Weiseck, were arrived in the Neighbourhood of that place, and would in 10 days be in a condition to pass the Mountains of Tirol. The Imperial Commissary in this City has lately sent away several Vessels laden with Corn for the Magazines of Luxemburg. Evening Post.

Florence, Jan. 7. The Great Duke's Ministers continue their extraordinary Conferences to consider of the Proposals which have been made to this Court on the part of the Allies of the Treaty lately concluded at Seville. The Ministers of the Allies make earnest Instances to obtain forthwith a categorical Answer on that head, and Father Ascanio, the Spanish Minister, waits only for that Answer to send back into Spain the last Courier he received from thence. Ibid.

Saturday, Jan. 24. Paris, Jan. 20. In the meeting of the Parliament, which was held the 10th instant, the Abbot Pucelle, perceiving that they were ready to separate, desired the Members to resume their places; and told them, that he had a piece to communicate to them, which concerned the King, the Church and the State; after which he laid on the table a Brief from the Pope, in form of a Bull, which condemns the Mandates of the Bishops of Auxerre and Metz, against the Legend of Gregory VII. as also the Approbation which was given to them by the Parliament. The Abbot Pucelle exclaimed loudly against the Arrogance, and the Attempts of the Court of Rome, and desired that they would come to a speedy Resolution upon the contents of the said Brief. This Proposition made a great noise in the Parliament, and Cardinal Fleury, who hath been informed thereof, has sent for the first President and some Members to come to Versailles, to see what measures can be taken there, to terminate the affair amicably, and without disobliging the Court of Rome. Morning Post.

Monday, Jan. 26. Hague, Jan. 20. N.S. "It is again reported here, that his excellency the Earl of Chesterfield will quit the Embassy to this State, and enter into the English Ministry, without being employed at any foreign Court, as was formerly suggested. Post Boy.

"Our publick News-papers speak very favourably of an Acommodation between the Courts of Hanover and Berlin, upon what ground we know not. Ostend Stock rises and falls every week; it is now at 130 upon the Exchange at Antwerp, where it is principally negotiated; but there are no Buyers even at that price. Ibid."

Tuesday, Jan. 27. Yesterday arrived the Mail due from France, and 1 from Holland.

Madrid, Jan. 16. N.S. On the 10th instant, the Treaty of Peace lately concluded at Seville was published here with the usual Ceremonies. Post Boy.

Hague, Jan. 31. N. S. On Friday night last an Express was dispatched by the way of Paris, with the States Generals Ratification, and of their Accession to the Treaty of Seville, to M. Vander Meer, their High Mightinesses Ambassador at the Court of Spain. The States came last Week to a Resolution to fit out 12 Men of War and 4 Frigates for the Service of the current year; which Resolution is sent to the respective Provinces for their Approbation. Gazette.

Wednesday, Jan. 18. Yesterday arrived the Mail due from Holland.

Milan, Jan. 14. N.S. Our last Advices from Florence say, that Court had not yet returned a positive Answer to the Ministers of England, France and Spain, concerning the Introduction of Don Carlos into Italy. The Prince of Carbognano-Colonna is returned hither, with design to make some stay among us. Courant.

Vienna, Jan. 21. N.S. Letters from Constantinople, of the 2d past, advise, that they had received an account, that the young Sophi having been reinforced by a body of Troops commanded by Mahmud, one of the principal Lords of the Province of Candahar, had in 3 battles defeated Sultan Efreff's army, and dispersed his best troops: that the Conquerors afterwards made themselves Masters of the important Post of Bender-Abassi, which cuts off the Communication between Ispahan and Sultan Efreff's army: that the numerous forces of the Great Mogul were on full march to the young Sophy's assistance; and that this last had promised Mahmud the Sovereignty of the Province of Candahar, in consideration of his services. The same Letters add, that a great Divan was held upon the receipt of the News, to consider whether the Porte should assist Sultan Efreff, or not; but that their sentiments were divided, and that an Ambassador from the young Sophi was arrived at Constantinople, who had already had an Audience of the Grand Vizier. Ibid.

On Wednesday Stocks were

South Sea 104 3 4ths, 7 8ths. Ditto Annuities 105 7 8ths a 6. India 182 1 half. Bank 139 3 4ths. 3 per Cent. 94 5 8ths. African 46 1 qr. York Buildings 19. Royal Ex. 86 1 4th. London Ass. 11 3 4ths. South Sea Bond, 3 l. 18 s. Pr. India Bond, 4 l. 18 s. Pr.

* * *

ADVERTISEMENTS.

This Day is published,

TWO EPISTLES to Mr. Pope, concerning the Authors of the Age. Printed for Lawton Gilliver at Homer's Head against St. Dunstan's Church, Fleet-street.

Where may be had, just published,

The Art of Politicks. With a curious Frontispiece———Rifum Teneatis Amici.

Likewise a new Edition of the Dunciad Variorum, 8vo. To which is added, some additional Notes and Epigrams.

* * *

This Day is published,

A New Edition of the Art of Politicks, in Imitation of HORACE's Art of Poetry, with a curious Frontispiece.―Risum teneatis Amici. Printed for Lawton Gilliver, at Homer's Head against St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet-street. Where may be had, A new and beautiful Edition of the DUNCIAD, in 8vo. with additional NOTES and EPIGRAMS. And speedily will be published, M. Hiernoymi VIDÆ OPERA OMNIA POETICA; quibus adjicitur ejusdem De dignitate Rei-publicæ Dialogus: ex recensione R. Russel, A.M. 2 Tom. 12mo.

* * *

This Day is Publish'd,

Arrian's History of Alexander's Expeditions.

TRanslated from the Greek with Notes Historical, Geographical, and Critical. By Mr. Rooke. In two Vol.

To which is prefix'd,

M. Le Clere's Criticism upon Quintus Curtius, and some remarks upon Mr. Perizonius's Vindication of that Author.

Printed for T. Worral, at the Judges Head in Fleet-street; J. Gray, at the Cross Keys in the Poultry; L. Gilliver, at Homer's Head in Fleet-street; and R. Wilock, at Sir Isaac Newton's Head in Cornhil.

* * *

BOOKS Printed and Sold by John Brotherton at the Bible in Cornhil.

Life of Oliver Cromwel, 8vo.

Collection of Novels, 12°. 6 Vol.

D'Anois Tales of the Fairies, 3 V. 12°.

Free Thoughts on Religion.

Pilgrim's Progress in 8°. with Cuts, 2 Vol.

Spectators, 8 Vol.

Prideaux Connection, 4 Vol.

Musical Miscell. 4 Vol. 8°.

The Dancing Master, by Mr. John Essex, 4°.

Boyer's Telemachus, 12°.

Gay's Fables, 8°.

Gordon's Geog. Grammar.

Boyer's Dictionary in 4°. or 8°.

Blais's Sermons, 5 Vol. 8°.

Shakespear's Plays.

Addison's Works, 4 Vol.

* * *

BLUNT to WALPOLE: A familiar Epistle in behalf of the British Distillery.

——— And tho' I say it, there's never a woman in the parish that takes more care for an honest livelihood than my self. I turn my hand to any thing to get a penny: sometimes I sell things in Leaden-hall-market; and sometimes I do an odd chare at one house, and sometimes at another.―We market-women are up early and late, and work hard for what we have. We stand all weathers, and go thro' thick and thin. It's well known, that I was never the woman that spar'd my carcass; and if I Spend three farthings now and then, in such simple stuff as we poor souls are glad to drink, it's nothing but what's my own; I get it honestly, and I don't care who knows it; for if it was not for something to chear the spirits between whiles, and keep out the wet and cold; alack-aday! it would never do! we should never be able to hold it; we should never go thorow-stitch with it, so as to keep body and soul together.———

Sessions-paper, May 1725.

Printed for J. Wilford in Stationers Court near Ludgate; and E. Bocket in George-yard near Lombard-street. Price 6 d.

* * *

WHEREAS there was lately Publish'd in the Daily Journal an Advertisement, insinuating that the Bristol Water, Sold by me was Wrong Water, under a Counterfeit Seal, &c. and not being yet able to learn whether the Hands, which are to it, be Forged or not, I content my self to print Part of Mr. Benjamin Perrot's last Account, which is as followeth, viz.

Dec. 8, 1729. l. s. d.

To 150 Dozen Quarts.

To paid Filling ditto 10 0 0

To Hallage ditto 1 5 0

The Original Letter is to be seen at my house, the Golden Tea Canister, in Fleet-street near Temple Bar; and as soon as I can learn whether the Names be Real or Forged, I shall set the Matter in a true Light.

N.B. It is a Pleasure to me that Mr. Perrot has been so good to give himself the Trouble of getting me the Bristol Water, because he is a Gentleman of such Worth, Honour, and Fortune, and so well known to the World, that the Truth of any Thing under his Hand will never be doubted.

Henry Eyre.

* * *

LONDON: Printed and Sold by J. Roberts in Warwick-Lane, and at the Pamphlet-Shops of London and Westminster; and also at the Pegasus (vulgarly called the Flying-horse) in Grubstreet, where Advertisements are taken in.

(Price Two Pence.)

