The Grub-street Journal — February 26th, 1730

Exported from Wikisource on May 11, 2026

Numb. VIII.

The Grub-street Journal.

* * *

Thursday, FEBRUARY 26. 1730.

* * *

Quanto rectius hic, qui nil molitur ineptè?

Hor.

To Mr. Bavius, Secretary to the Grubæan Society.

Learned Sir,

THO' the Dissertations, at the beginning of your Journal, have been hitherto almost wholly confined to Poetry; I suppose you do not intend to exclude the graver Sciences. It is on this supposition, that I take the liberty to lay before you my thoughts on the method of writing Cases in Phyfick and Surgery. The Rules I lay down are drawn from the Examples of our present Writers on those Subjects, most of whom are Members of your illustrious Society. The antient Physicians were remarkable for their continual aversion to Grubbism; and Hippocrates, if we compare him with the Moderns, was far from deserving the character of divine, which many have idly bestowed on him. It raises my indignation, I confess, when I see the Cases, which that Author has related, so universally applauded: whereas they are conveyed in so cold, so unaffecting, so unadorned a manner, that, however they may instruct, I am sure they can never entertain a Reader. The present Writers seem very sensible of this; for They generally take great care to provide for the diversion of their Readers.

Hippocrates, in the beginning of his cases tells us, that Mr. Such-an-one, or Mr. Such-an-one's Wife or Child, was ill in such and such a manner. But a modern Author, instead of such low phrase, elevates the subject, by giving the titles of the Patient or his Family; and an account of the great offices they bore in the Commonwealth. Thus I have seen a Case begin; Nobilissimus Infans, Filius natu maximus illustrissimi Marchionis (viri muniorum omnium in Republica maximorum summè capucis; quem nullæ rerum humanarum vicissitudines ab integritate singulari unquam transversum egerunt; ac denique ingenii celeritate quadam incredibili dorati) &c. Now Hippocrates would only have said, a Child of fourteen months old was troubled with the Chin-cough; and then have told us what methods he used for his recovery. This way of writing, which I beg leave to call the Meteorous, may be farther improved by the use of swelling Epithets. Thus a Looseness may be called ingens clvi profluvium; a pain in the head, dolor capitis intolerabilis; and a restless night may be expressed by noctem egit ab omne quiete alienam, & vehementer admodum delirabat.

The next kind of style, which I shall recommend, is the digressive. This agreeably amuses us, and calls us off from the uneasy attention, in which the relation of a melancholy case is apt to engage us. The Gentleman who excels most in this way is the learned Dr. Daniel Turner, whom I look upon as one of the greatest ornaments of your Society. This learned Gentleman has given us the greatest Master-piece in this way I ever saw, in his art of Surgery. It is in the Case of an antient man coming out of Essex, under some seeming discontent of mind, who took up his lodging at the Dolphin without Bishopsgate. This Case extending to full 7 pages of an octave volume, I must deny my self the pleasure of transcribing it at length, lest I should take up too much room in your paper, if you think fit to give this dissertation a place in it. Having told us very particularly the manner of the old man's cutting his throat, he adds, that he laid aside his razor, leaning himself over the side of the bed, that the blood might fall down upon the floor. In this Posture, before he was quite exhausted, he gave several strong groans; which being overheard by a stranger, waking out of his sleep, in another bed, though the same room, gave an alarm to the said person, who calling out, but hearing no answer, leaped out of bed, and crying aloud at the window for the Chamberlain, a candle was brought in, and the poor old man found speechless, as under the agonies of death; however, finding by his sighing that he was still alive, they came presently for my assistance, who, understanding what had happened, hastened to him with such necessaries as I thought I might have occasion for; and coming to the bed-side, found a stream of blood running thence to the farther end of the Chamber. Then acquainting us with the manner of his stitching up the wound, he proceeds: While this was doing, he fetch'd, as we say, several sighs; and having cleaned him, and put him on a fresh shirt, we attempted to get on two or three spoonfuls of wine, but could not, at least as I perceived. I then called to him and desired, if he could not speak, that he would make some sign by lifting up his hand to mine; at which be stared like one amazed, but could do neither. Wherefore it was thought necessary to secure his Chamber fellow, who freely surrendered himself, without offering an escape, but readily assisting us all the time, there being none but these two in the room, and not certain but that the old man had been assassinated, nothing being found in his pockets more than would pay for a night's lodging, although his habit was very decent, but plain, like that of a country yeoman of the inferior rank. It was truly my opinion, that the case was Suicide, the other poor man calling out for help, instead of making his escape, which he never attempted; but how innocent soever, he was committed to the Compter in the morning. Having left orders with the Chamberlain for his farther management, till a Nurse could be provided, I went home in great concern for the poor Traveller, who was like to be sent to Newgate, yet upon search had only two shillings with some farthings found upon him; but in few hours after, was earnestly intreated to go back, for they had heard him speak. Being well pleased at the News, for the satisfaction of my own mind, I hastened to him again, and calling aloud (for I understood by the people of the Inn, that he seemed to them a little deaf over night) asked him how the accident came, and whether he had not cut his throat, or some body else? He answered very low and faintly, it was the Devil had done it. I then ordered the servants to come close to the bed-side, when I again put the question, that if the Devil had done it, whether the Razor was not his, and held in his own hand when the wound was made? held in his own hand when the wound was made? He replied, yes. I then desired he would tell us, if the stranger, who lay in the bed just by him, had any hand in the action, because he was brought into trouble on this occasion, and might be hang'd for him: Upon which he answered with great concern, as loud as he could, No, no, no. Whereupon, drawing up a small writing, in the form of an Affidavit, for each witness to sign, together with one I made my self before the Magistrate, I went the same day, and procured the poor fellow's release; but this as foreign (for you will, I hope, pardon me) passing by. Then our Author returns again to the case, and with the help of several minute circumstances, and proper remarks, in about four pages concludes. Now had Hippocrates been to relate this case, we had never been entertained with the Episode of the Chamber-fellow's being sent to the Compter; the many useful remarks and cautions of the Doctor, nor twenty little circumstances, which render so melancholy a History more diverting, than could have been imagined.

But this is not the only excellence of this Author. His Politeness in the relation of some cases is no less to be admired. Thus in a Case of a Lady who had hurt her Crupper Bone, he speaks in the following manner; Going more narrowly to view the Appendage of the Sacrum, and lay my fingers thereon, I found it depressed or beat in, bearing hard against the Rectum: wherefore, dipping my fore-finger in oil, I gently introduced it by the Anus, where I presently met the obstacle, and with the same pressing outwards, and attempting to raise up the broken Coccyx, as I found it gave way, I still bore harder, till I had freed the Intestine from its pressure, when, withdrawing my finger, there followed a copious dejection of the Fœces, together with some parts of the Clysters thrown up the day before. But even this is exceeded by the Case of a Cancer on the out-side of the Anus; That which I thought remarkable in this Case, was a large Quantity of a brown or duskish Salt, like Sand, which, upon wiping himself after his stool, he had long time before observed felt very gritty, and of which having for that purpose washed the excrement of one stool in several waters, this saltish sand subsiding to the bottom of the Bason, he had collated near upon two Drachms; which examining upon my tongue, I found by the hot, pungent, and bitter salt, there was more of a salt than fabulous nature.

The Marvellous is a kind of style greatly to be esteemed for its use in creating our surprize, as well as in giving us instruction. The ingenious Dr. Nicholas Robinson has an excellent talent at this. He tells us of a young Gentleman, who was naturally very silly: but [1] it so fell out, as he was one night returning from a ball, that a young Gentleman tript up his heels, and gave him such a bang upon the skull, as shov'd his Brain right, and recovered some glimmerings of Wit and Genius to him, that was born but one degree from a Natural. When I read this, I cannot help being under the greatest uneasiness, lest our Author should happen to have his heels tript up, which might shove his brain wrong, and spoil so tow'ring a Genius. I could wish the Doctor would oblige us with a Treatise expressly on these shoves of the Brain, as a learned Divine of your Society did formerly on shoves of the Crupper. He seems to be exceedingly well skill'd in the Rationale of them; if we may judge by his reasoning on the Case now before us. This Shock or Fall gave him some Glimmerings of that light, which, according to the original constitution of his organs, he could never naturally enjoy in this meridian of his being; and if the Blow had been a little stronger, and struck the seat of the common Sensorium a little more askew, or parallel to the Axis of the several organs of the senses, who can doubt, but that his reasoning Faculties would have shone out in their fullest Lustre? But then the fine Deportment of his Carriage, the graceful Main of his Person, and former obliging Air, in all likelihood, would have been greatly disconcerted, and suffered in the Change. No less marvellous is another story, related by the same Author, [2] of a Madman, who, in one of his frantick Fits, flung himself out of a window, three story high, but accidentally pitching upon a Draw-well, he fell plum down into the water, and being taken up was perfectly recovered to the use of his senses again. It was computed, he fell near thirty Fathom before he came to the surface of the water, and the well was about 6 Fathom deep under Water. Sure nothing can be more surprizing than this, if we consider either the length or the manner of the Fall. We may allow (illegible text) Feet from the Window to the Mouth of the (illegible text). Then there will remain about 150 Feet for (illegible text) within the Well, before he reached the surface of the Water; and the force his body must by this time have acquired, would, I think, plunge him pretty deep into the water. Now, dear Mr. Bavius, do but reflect on the lucky hit of falling plum into the well; then of the providential escape of beating out his brains in banging from one side to the other before he reached the water; but above all, the miracle of his getting out again; and I am sure you will agree with me, that it is as marvellous a Case as ever appeared, (I will not say in the History of Physick, but) in any History whatsoever. If you shall think this worthy of a place in your Journal, you may expect to hear farther from

Your constant Reader,

and Admirer,

Ephraim Quibus, M.D.

* * *

LONDON.

Thursday, Feb. 26.

On saturday last a Packthread spinner in the Park, Southwark, was committed to the New Gaol, for throwing a pair of pinchers at his son, and splitting his scull. The Even. Post.

The Rev. Dr. Trapp is to preach at the Lady Mayor's Lecture at St Paul's the first thursday in next month. The Even. and Lond Even. Post.

Yesterday came on a Trial at the Court of Common-pleas, before the Lord Chief Justice Eyre, on an Action brought by one Nich. Scotcher against his [late] Master, Mr. Turner, a Smith, in Air-street, for beating and abusing him in a very cruel manner, insomuch that one of his testicles was very much bruised. When after a full hearing, the Jury brought in a verdict for the Plaintiff of 100 l. damage. Courant, the Even. and Whitehall Even Posts.

The Plaintiff's charge against the Defendant was, hid having beat him in such a barbarous manner, in his private Parts, as to render him incapable of marrying. Post Boy, and St. James's Even. Post.

On wednesday last died at his seat near Nottingham Sir Charles Sedley, of South-fleet, in Kent, Bar. who has left several Children, and is succeeded by his eldest Son, Sir Charles, who is very young. D. Post, the Even. and Whitehall Even.

Last night died at Mill-bank the Lady Grosvenor, Wife of Sir Rich. Grosvenor, of Eaton in Cheshire, Bart. She was sole Daughter of Sir George Warburton, of Arley in Cheshire, Bar. by Diana his Wife, Daughter and Heir of the Right Honourable the Lord Ailington. Lond. Even. P.

The Rev. Mr. Thomas, Curate of the Garrison of Sheerness, being appointed to go a Missionary to Carolina, went in a Hoy down the River to Sheerness, with design to preach his fare-well Sermon as last sunday, but as he was going ashore in a small Boat from the Hoy, it was, by a surge of the sea, overset, and he unfortunately drowned, on friday between one and two a clock, near the shore, after swimming 10 minutes; but his man and the boy were saved, the former by getting hold of an Oar, and the latter by getting upon the bottom of a Boat. The 4 Even. Posts.

On monday last one Stinton, a Looking-glass maker in Moorfields was robb'd, by one Highway man, of three broad pieces, a pocket Book, and his mare. The Fellow join'd company with him 9 miles on this side Bristol, and lodged with him 2 nights, and borrowed money of him to bear his expences. When they came near Uxbridge, the Fellow desir'd to go with him to a relation's house, a little out of the road, where he would pay him his money. By this means he led him into a private field, that had no path; in returning out of which, he knock'd him off his horse, and demanded his money; which not being able to give him, he told him where it was, and the rogue took it. Mr. Stinton desiring him to let him have enough to carry him to London, he told him he would give him something; and drawing out a pistol, shot him through the neck, and then threw him into a ditch: where he lay for some time, till recovering a little strength, he got into the road, and was conducted, by Gentlemen, to a Farm-house; where he is under the care of a Surgeon, and is like to do well. D Journ. St. James's, Whitehall, and Lond. Even.

The Evening Post calls him, Mr. Staunton, a Glass-seller, and says, he was robb'd and shot dead near Uxbridge.

The Rev. Mr. Is. Maddox, Clerk of the Closet to her Majestey, and Prebendary of Chichester, is presented by the Lord Archbishop of Canterbury to the Living of the united Parishes of St. Vedast, alias Foster, and S. Michael at Querne, vacant by the death of Dr. Marshal. 4 Even Posts.

Mr. Rob. Phillips's new-invented MACHINE FIRE GRATE, as in the Daily Journal and Whitehall Even is by the Evening Post cased MACAINE FIRE GRATE; which occasioned some dispute at a certain Coffee-house betwixt Persons of different Parties, which the Inventor is desired to determine, as a thing of great consequence. The Gentleman who thought MACAINE to be the true reading, brought several plausible, (though not demonstrative) arguments in support of his opinion, tending to prove that it was an Irish Invention.

Friday, Feb. 20.

Yesterday came on the Election of a Chaplain of St. Saviour's Southwark. There were 16 Candidates, which were reduced first to 6, then to 4, and last to 2, viz. Mr. Smith, whose Father is one of the Gentlemen of the Vestry, and Mr. Symms, Son of the Rev. Mr. Symms, Master of the Free-School, both natives of the Parish; and upon a Ballot, the numbers were: for the Rev. Mr. Smith 15. For the Rev. Mr. Symms 11. There are but 26 Gentlemen of the Vestry. There are 2 Chaplains, whose places are worth 200 l. per ann. each. Courant, Post Man, Journal, the Even. Post, Feb. 21.

Yesterday at a Court of Delegates at Serjeants-Inn Hall, in a Cause between Mr Boddin, Plaintiff, and Mr. Wise, Defendant, about the Will of one Mr. Boddin, the Defendant had 50 l. Costs given him. Cour. Even. Post.

The Will of Mr. Budging Post Boy. M. Budcin. Daily Post.

Orders are given for every Company in the 1st Regiment of Foot Guards, to give an account of the age and service of every soldier in the said Regiment. Courant, the Even. Post, S. James's Even. Feb. 21.

Yesterday about noon, as the Lord Albemarle was going in his Coach in Gracechurch street, he saw a Soldier, that had deserted from his Company about 2 years ago, and who about 7 before had received his Majesty's pardon, and was one of those appointed to shoot his Comrade, they being both under sentence of death for desertion. His Lordship took him in his Coach to the Tower, from whence he was sent to the Savoy under a strong guard. Post Boy, the Even. St. James's, and Whitehall Even. Post, Feb. 21.

Yesterday came on before the Lord Chief Justice Eyre a Trial between Sus. Fowler, an Infant of about 8 years old, by her next akin, Plaintiff, and Ric. Woodcock, an Infant of about 11, by his Guardians, Jos. Woodcock and Mary his Wife, Defendant; for a Trespass and assault on the body of the said Susanna, in tearing her in a barbarous manner. The Hearing lasted 6 hours; and it appearing to be a childish action, committed 2 years since, the Jury gave the Plaintiff 20 l. Damages. D. Post, the Even. and Lond. Even. Posts.

The action was brought for a violent assault, with a design to ravish. St. James's Even.

A Girl of about 6 years of age, and a Boy of about 9. Post Boy. A Girl now 8 years of age. D. Jour.

My Brethren, the Writers of some of the Papers abovementioned, are surely mistaken in saying, that this appeared to the Court to be a childish Action: for I appeal to my impartial Readers, whether they ever heard of any Action in a person so young, which Had the appearance of such manhood. And I think it a most illustrious instance of the forwardness of Youth in this virtuous Age.

Last week died at Welborne in Lincolnshire, Sir Hen. Hussey, Bar. and is succeeded by His Brother (now) Sir Edw. Hussey, Bar. Post Boy, the Even. St. James's and Whitehall Even. Posts.

Saturday, Feb. 21.

Yesterday noon Mr. Newbol, a Poulterer in Leadenhall-market, who had undertaken to walk 251 times round the upper quarter of Moorfields (which is somewhat more than 100 miles) in 27 hours, finished the same in few minutes less than the time, tho' the weather was very wet, and he was very much obstructed by the great number of people present. He was walking about 24 hours, 2 he was in bed, and 1 he spent at several times in refreshing himself. He is the Son of the Person, who walked 100 miles by the River side, near Molesey Ferry in about 28 hours, for a wager, which he won. D. Jour. St. James's Even. Post.

He set out on thursday morning at half an hour after 9, and performed it yesterday by 11 minutes after 12 at noon. The Even. and Lond. Even. Posts.

Yesterday his Majesty went to the House of Peers, and gave the Royal Assent to the Land-tax bill, and 2 Naturalization Bills. D. Post.

John Everet, William Westwood, Hen. Nowland, and Williamson Goodburn, were yesterday executed at Tyburn; and the Surgeons having a warrant for receiving one Body, that of Westwood was delivered to them. Before Everet had been hang'd a minute, upon their [the] pulling him by the legs, the rope broke, and he fell to the ground, but was utterly senseless; however, he was immediately ty'd up again. D. Post, and 4 Even Posts.

Nowland and Westwood denied the robberies for which they died. Whitehall Even. Post.

Yesterday one George Ronson was committed to Newgate by Justice Tothil, for ravishing one Eliz Bickells, a girl of 10 years of age. D. Post, 4 Even. Posts.

On thursday one Dalton stood in the Pillory at the upper end of Bond-street, for Forgery, and yesterday he stood again at the upper end of the Hay-market. Cour.

For defrauding Mrs. Elliot, who keeps St. James's Coffee-house, of 2 half pounds of Tea, 20 houses of Arrack, &c. Post Boy.

Yesterday at the Court of Common-Pleas, a Cause was try'd between M. Church. a Glazier, in Bennet's Court, Drury-lane, Plaintiff, and the High Constable and several Petty Constables, Defendants, for assaulting and taking by main force the Wife of Mr. Church, as she was going to call her Lodger home, and carrying her to the Watchhouse at 12 at night, and detaining her till 11 next morning: when the Jury gave the Plaintiff 40 l. damages. Post Boy

The same day at the Court of King's Bench, Japhet Crook, alias Sir Pet. Stranger, was try'd for perjury, and acquitted. Post Boy, St. James's, and Whitehall Even.

The same day died at his house in Covent-garden, Sir George Browne, of Caversham in Oxfordshire, Bar. who is succeeded by his eldest Son, now Sir John Browne, Bar. D. Post, 4 Even. Posts.

On tuesday last Will. Burton of North Lassenham, Esq; was chosen Representative for the County of Rutland, D. Jour. The Even St. James's, and Whitehall Ev. Posts.

Friday the 13th, James Rutherford, of Bouland, Esq; was chosen Representative for Selkirkshire in Scotland, without opposition. The Even. St. James's and Whitehall Even. Post.

This morning, between 11 and 12, the Right Hon. the Lord Harrington crossed the Thames at Lambeth, on his Embassy to the Court of France. St. James's Even. Post.

His Majesty, upon an humble Address of the house of Commons, has been pleased to order the proper Officers to lay before that house, an Account of what Offices or Employments under the Crown have been erected since Oct. 25, 1705, with the Salaries annexed thereto, the dates of the first Commission, and the names of the Persons who now possess the same. Lond Jour.

The Account published in several Papers of Mr. Keen, his Majesty's Minister at the Court of Spain, having obtained a Schedule for the South Sea Company's annual ship, is without foundation. Fog's Journal.

Monday, Feb. 23.

A new set of gilt Plate is ordered for his Royal Highness the Duke, out of the jewel office. Cour. and D. Post.

On saturday Mr. Oglethorp, Chairman of the Committee appointed to inspect into the several Goals of this Kingdom, with divers others of the Committee, went to the King's-bench Prison in Southwark, to examine into the affairs and usage of the Prisoners confined in the said Goal. Courant.

On saturday night the Fair Penitent was acted again at Drury-lane, where the same Gentleman, who performed on thursday night, acted again, with great Applause, the Part of Lothario, which used to be aligned to the celebrated Mr. Booth: and the concourse was so great, that several Ladies of the first Rank were excluded for want of room. Courant.

Yesterday the Rt. Rev. the Lord Bishop of Chichester preached before their Majesties in the Chappel-Royal at St. James's; and the Rev. Dr. Birch before his Highness the Duke of Cumberland, and the Princesses Mary and Louisa, in his Highness's Apartment. Post-boy.

Last friday morning, about 7 o' Clock, died Arthur Curzon, Esq; whose Father died about 6 months since, and left him an Estate of 2000 l. per ann. Ibid.

On wednesday next, at 6 in the evening, in the Great Apollo, at the Devil Tavern near Temple-bar, will be opened an Academy, in imitation of the French Academy at Paris: and for the opening three discourse will be pronounced, one in Latin, in praise of the Lawyers of Great Britain, and particularly those of the Temple; another in French, on the beauty of the French Tongue, and its usefulness to the English Nation; the third a burlesque Poem in the style of Scaron, intitled, Nimrod, or the Tower of Babel. Canto I. To be continued every week by subscription. D. Journal.

Tuesday, Feb. 24.

Yesterday at the Court Martial at the Horse-guards, Whitehall, the Affair depending between Capt. Reynold and Maj Singleton, was decided in favour of the latter. Courant.

But it is to be referred to his Majesty. Post Boy.

Since the departure of the Lord Harrington for France, his Royal Highness the Duke has taken in all his Apartment at St. James's: and we hear that his Majesty has been pleased to order a Settlement of his Household separate from the young Princesses. Post Boy.

Yesterday morning died at his house in King's-Arms yard, Coleman-street, George Hammond, Esq; a wealthy Merchant. D. Post. Spanish Merchant. D. Journ.

Yesterday the South Sea Company's new Ship built in the room of the Royal George, was launched from Mr. Bird's Dock, and called the Prince William: and the command of her will be given to Captain Cleland, who formerly commanded their Ship the Royal Prince. 4 Ev. Posts.

Wednesday, Feb. 25.

Monday night last Col. Armstrong, who has been to view the harbour of Dunkirk, arrived in Town. Cour.

Yesterday one Nightingale a Waterman coming through bridge with the Tilt up, his boat overset, having in her his three Children and his Apprentice; who were all saved, but the Father was drowned. Post Boy.

This day the Sessions begin at the Old-Bailey. ibid.

The South Sea Company have actually received a Schedule from the King of Spain, for their new Ship Prince William, &c. D. Journ.

Last Wednesday night died at his Lodgings in the Old Baily, the Morning Post, a painful member of our Society. He was a young Gentleman, naturally of a weak and crazy constitution, had been much neglected by his Friends, and long under the cruel tongue of his Enemies, so that it is no wonder that he died before he arrived at years of Discretion. His original name was The Morning Paper, by the Coffee Men, &c. which, upon the prospect of a considerable Fortune, he changed for that of The Morning Post. He had lodged in Bartholomew-close for some time, where his Distemper, which was an Atrophy and Consumption, increased gradually upon him. On Sunday the 15th instant, be was removed to the Old Baily (a Place very fatal to those who go by different names) to the house of a famous Physician, properly called a Leach. The very next day he became delirious, talking chiefly of the Races at Newmarket, and giving all persons the Titles of Knights. Among other things I remember he said, That Sir Roger Williams meking conrrbation to the Horses, aquanced the Caggage, rnaeived the servtce, conecluded Lwisserland, and inteded Welch-pin Montgomery. For my part, I could not but fancy myself in Montgomery where being unwilling to continue, and finding I could be no ways serviceable to my Friend, I left him: after which he continued this Welch Jargon for 3 days; and then expired.

Dublin, Feb. 14. last week the Rt. Hon. Will. Conolly, Esq was sworn one of his Majesty's most Hon. Privy-Council. Flying Post.

On thursday died the Rt. Hon. Hen. Maxwell, of Fennebrogue in Down, Esq; who had sate in every Parliament, except the first, since the Revolution. Ibid.

This week 18 Persons died of Consumptions, and 25 of Fevers. Ibid.

Feb. 17. Yesterday his Excellency was pleased to compliment the Rev. Mr. Matthew Pilkington, Curate of St. Andrew's, with a purse of 20 Moidores, for his excellent Ode, sung at the Castle on his Majesty's Birthday. Ibid.

Edinburgh, Feb. 16. last week a Butcher was imprisoned and fined 10 l. for selling young small Mutton instead of Lamb. Ibid.

In the night between thursday and friday last, a Fire broke out on the shore of Leith, opposite to the Cran, and burnt down a Tenement to the Ground story. Ibid.

Feb. 17. Friday last died in Child-bed the Countess of Carnwarth, who was Daughter to Hamilton of Bangour. Ibid.

The same day Mr. Rutherford, of Rowland, was unanimously chosen Member of Parliament for Selkirk, in the room of Mr. Pringle, now one of the Lords of the Session. Ibid.

* * *

FOREIGN NEWS.

Thursday, Feb. 26.

Paris, Feb. 15. Some People die, by which means others are preferred: Mons. de Cadeville is made Lieutetenant Collonel of the King's Regiment, &c. Some People marry, among these are Mons. de Carleron, first President of the sovereign Council of Alsace, with Mademoiselle de Granges, Daughter of the Great Master of the Ceremonies. And some would be unmarried, of these (illegible text) are Mons. and Mad. de Bacqueville. The Lady, by a judgment of the Grand Chamber, is permitted to live separate from her Husband, and to take up her habitation in what place, and to live in what manner she shall think fit. This is so very common among the Parisians, that People, very much admire why they need to have had the Decision of a Court of Judicature for it.

Among the Works of the Learned, we have just printed a very curious Piece, as is judged by the Title, which is A Panegyrick on Nothing, dedicated to No-body, with a Preface at last. Cour. St. James's and Whitehall Even. Posts.

Hague, Jan. 17. N.S. Private Advices from Paris Say, that the French go on briskly with the equipment of a Squadron of men of war at Brett and Toulon, to assist in escorting the Infante Don Carlos. We have no news from Brunswick, tho' the Prussian Commissaries pretend to be in hourly expectation of receiving fresh orders to resume the negotiations, and bring them to the desired issue: but we are the more dubious of this success, because there are certain other affairs to be discussed, of which you will hear more in the course of a few weeks.

The present Duke of Parma's name is Francisco (or Francis) Farnese. He is the 7th Duke of Parma and Placentia, and was born May 19, 1678. He married Nov. 29, 1695. Dorothy-Sophia, Daughter to Philip-William, Elector Palatine, and Widow of his half Brother Odoardo III. for which he had a dispensation from the Pope.

His Father was Rainutio II. whose second Wife was Isabella of Este, Daughter to Francis I. Duke of Modena, by whom he had Odoardo III. who by Dorothy-Sophia above-mentioned, had Elizabeth, born Oct. 25, 1692, who married Philip V. King of Spain, in 1714, whose eldest Son Don Carlos is.

The Revenues of the Great Duke of Tuscany are computed at 1,800,000 Ducats a year, whereof the City of Florence alone furnishes 700,000. His Royal Highness, tho' neutral in the last war, maintained about 5000 horse, and 20,000 foot. The Duke of Parma's Revenue amounts to about 400,000 Crowns a year. Post Boy.

This day we had a Mail from Holland.

Rome, Feb. 4. The sacred College has resolved to garrison the Towns of Parma and Placentia with papal Troops, these Dutchies being Fiefs of the Holy See.

Milan, Feb. 4. The Government has received orders from Vienna, to prepare in the Mantuan and the Cremoneze, Quarters for 15,000 men, who are expected next month from Germany. Courant, D. Post.

Frankfort, Feb. 18. The last letters from Vienna confirm, that the Emperor is fully determined not to consent to the bringing of Spanish Troops into Italy on the foot stipulated by the Treaty of Seville. They add, that the Marquess de Velasco, Minister of Tuscany, had, by the Duke's order declared, that in case the Spaniards would enter by force into his Dominions, his Royal Highness would then receive imperial Troops into Leghorn, and other Towns, on Condition those Troops should take an Oath of Fidelity to him. Cour. Post Boy, D. Post, D. Jour.

Friday, Feb. 27.

Moscow, Feb. 1. N.S Upon the 18th of Jan. the Czar, our young Monarch, had the first Symptoms of the Smallpox, which did not only come out as kindly as we could wish, but, in all humane Appearance, were not attended with the least symptom of danger, till the 12th day. But on sunday the 29th, he was seized with a violent Fever, of which he died at 1 of the Clock next morning. Courant, Post Boy.

The Czar John-Alexiewitz, Brother to the Czar Pet. I. left three Daughters, namely, the Princess Katharine, born in 1692, married to the Duke of Mecklenburg; the Princess Anne, Dutchess Dowager of Courland, now Czarina, born in 1693, and the Princess Proscovia, born in 1695, now in a Convent. Courant.

Rome, Feb. 4. N.S. The Princess, Consort to the Prince of Palestrina, aged 13 years, 1 month, and some days, was brought to bed of a Daughter, Jan. 30. who was baptized the 2d instant. Courant.

Hamburgh, Feb. 17. All our Advices from Brunswick are full of their expectation of a Campaign very speedily, the Troops of the Electorate of Hanover holding themselves in a continual readiness to march. Post Boy.

Saturday, Feb. 21.

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from France. Paris, Feb. 5. N.S. The Marquis do Rangoni, Envoy of the Duke of Modena at this Court, died a few days ago, after a lingring illness. Courant.

Genoa, Feb. 4. The Master of an English vessel arrived from Marseilles, reports, that besides the men of war and gallies that are fitting out at that Port and Toulon, they are likewise equipping some fireships, and other vessels of war. St. James's Even.

Milan, Feb. 4. Distempers rage here, and carry off a world of people: colds above all are very rife among us, as they are also throughout all Lombardy. St. James's Evening.

Genoa, Feb. 4. Public Prayers have been put up in all our Churches for 3 days successively, and the Host exposed, for putting a stop to the Colds and Fevers that are exceeding rife here. St. James's Even.

Monday, Feb. 23.

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from Holland.

Seville, Feb. 12. N.S. They go on at Cadiz and other Ports, with the Preparations for transporting the Spanish Troops for Italy: and 'tis reported, that the Infante Don Carlos will set out the beginning of April, and go by land to Barcelona, to be ready to embark there for Italy. Courant, Post Boy, D. Post.

Vienna, Feb. 15. The first body of Troops, which is actually marching for Italy consists of 9856 men. The general rendezvous is to be near Inspruck, in the County of Tyrol; whence they are to march into Italy by different routes. Just now, we hear, that upon the arrival of some Expresses from France and Italy, this Court has sent orders to the Troops to halt. Courant, Post Boy, D. Post. Reports are spread that on the arrival, &c. D. Journal.

Petersbourg, Feb. 4. No sooner had the General Count Munich received the sad news of the Emperor's death, than he assembled all the Colleges, and declared to them, that conformably to the last Will of his Imperial Majesty, the Dutchess-dowager of Courland was declared Empress. D. Post.

Tuesday, Feb. 24.

Dresden, Feb. 19, N.S. Yesterday was celebrated the marriage of the Countess de Cossel (the King's natural Daughter) with Count Moschinski, Treasurer of the Crown of Poland, Great Falconer and Chamberlain to his Majesty, as Elector of Saxony: at which the King, the Electoral Prince and Princess, and a great number of Lords and Ladies were present. The Bridegroom was honoured that day with the order of the White Eagle. Courant.

Francfort, Feb. 22. We are assured, that the Hessian Troops in English pay have received orders to be in a continual readiness to march. Courant.

Hamburgh, Feb. 21. Some Advices from Berlin import, that upon the news of the death of the Emperor of Russia, the King of Prussia set out from Potsdam to go to Dresden, and confer with the King of Poland; and that General Count Seckendorf, Minister of the Emperor, General Grumkow, and 2 or 3 other Generals, accompanied his Majesty thither. D. Post.

Leghorn, Feb. 11. A general sickness rages here; which comes first with a Cold, and a violent Cough, and ends in a Fever, so that near 2 thirds of the Inhabitants are down, and not Soldiers sufficient to mount the Guard, 300 having been sent into the Hospital in one day. This is imputed to the irregularity of the season, the wind having continued easterly for so days, which caused the weather to be extremely cold and dry. Many of the principal Inhabitants have fled into the Country, as from a Contagion. 4 Even Posts.

Wednesday, Feb. 15.

Paris, Feb. 28. The Tragedy of Callisthenes the Philosopher, tho' but ill received the first night, was, after some corrections of the Author, extremely applauded; and met with very good success. Post Boy.

Prices of Corn at Reading and Basingstoke.

At Reading At Basingstoke.

Wheat p. Load 7 1. to 9 l. 5s. 6 l. to 8 l. 5 s.

Barl. p. Quar. 19 s. to 1 1. 2s. 18 s. to 1 l.

Oats 17 s. 16 s. to 19 s. 6 d.

Horse beans 1 l. 6 s. 1 l. 8 s.

Hag peas 1 l. 7 s. 1 l. 7 s. 6 d.

White Peas 1 l. 12 s.

Prices of Goods at Bear Key on Monday.

per Quarter

Wheat 22 to 30

Rye 14 to 15

Barley 13 to 16

Oats 8 to 15

Horse Beans 20 to 26

Hog Peas 18 to 20

Boiling Peas 22 to 25

Pale Malt 18 to 21

Brown Malt 18 to 20 6

Tares 24 to 30

Coals 22 s. to 23 s. per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 20 s. to 35 s. per Hundred.

Hops 1729 35 s. to 50 s. per Hundred.

Rape Seed 14 l to 15 l. per Last,

Whitehall Evening.

On Wednesday Stocks were

South-Sea 101 1 8th. Annuities 105 7 8ths to 106. Bank 139. India 177 3 4ths. Three per Cent. Annuities 94 1 half. African 37. Royal Exchange Assurance 87. London Assurance 117 8ths. York Buildings 15 3 4ths. India Bonds 4 l. South Sea Bonds 3 l. 12 s.

* * *

The General Shipping LIST.

Ships arrived and sailed from Great Britain, from Feb. 17 to Feb. 24.

Bristol.

Ships Captains From For

17 Charity Hamot Jamaica ———

Diligence Baily Viginia ———

20 Nassau Gilbert Jamaica ———

Falmouth.

13 Martha Hancock London Gibraltar

Betty Gwyn Shoreham Lisbon

May-flower Stubbs London Jamaica

Kingston Watson ibid Cadiz

Providence Chace ibid Oporto

14 Diana sailed Bernard Bourdeaux ———

Camberwell Condon Newfoundla. ———

Eliz. and Sarah Ruelt N. England ———

18 Prince Fred. Lovel Lisbon ———

19 Grove Babb London Virginia

Plymouth.

13 Alex Curling London Carolina

Mary Keriont ibid Lisbon

Haswel Brooks ibid Virginia

Francis Boswell ibid ibid

Essex Dansic ibid ibid

16 Margaret Reed Bremen S. Lucar

Henningham Jones London Antegoa

18 Elizabeth Geliew Topsham Newfoundla.

19 Susanna Dorin ——— Cork

Bolton Rutter London Oporto

Cowes.

15 Tankerville Colvil London Maryland

London Dover ibid Jamaica

Content Hooper Rotterdam Lisbon

King's fisher Green London Leverpool

Sunderland Ready ibid Nantz

Portsmouth.

17 Dawnson Steward London East India

Bridgwater ——— ibid ———

Dover.

9 America Bell ——— South Carol

Deal, bound home.

16 Betty Friend Oporto ———

Arabella Hicks South Carol. ———

Margaret Heming Dublin ———

Globe Lisle Jamaica ———

Mary Cock Maryland ———

17 Ruby Gough South Carol. ———

Charm. Nancy Mairns Canaries ———

19 Lillie Townsend Malaga ———

William Thompson Seville ———

S. George Roberts Lisbon

20 Antelope Morris Seville

21 Eagle Stanton ibid

22 Blanch. Adv. Staples Carolina

Gravesend bound home.

17 Mara Leatherhead N. England

19 Eaton Griffith Jamaica

Truelove Omer S. Carolina

Sea Nymph Flower Antegoa

Seven Sisters Winter Rochel

Providence Mood Ireland

Diana Barnard Bourdeaux

Belly Friend Oporto

22 D. of Charos Pepper Dunkirk

Eliz. and Mary Maples ibid

Mary Cook Maryland

William Thompson Seville

sailed Gravesend bound out.

18 Totness Curling N. England

Union Holmans ibid

Cambridge Crocker ibid

Gourd Pink Crane Virginia

Han. and Deb. Cranwell Holland

Concordia Garret France

Gough Peck Virginia

Lady Martha Hart Holland

Neptune Smith Dunkirk

19 Benj. and Ann Vavastor Jamaica

P. William Beresford East-India

Lethieuler Shepherd ibid

Salisbury Smith sailed 21 Lisbon

Adventure Oliver Virginia

Hopewel Miller ibid

20 Peach Blossom Cork

Will. and Mary Croswick Ostend

Charm. Peggy Carter Gibraltar

Alexander Downing New York

Anthony Redmond West Indies

Sea-horse Hunt ibid

Rebecca Tyzack ibid

21 Mart. & Hiz. French ibid

Able Forster ibid

Kings Weston Harris ibid

Mary and Joan. Hallifax ibid

Anne Blewit Naples

Page Ashby Holland

22 Young John Joachim ibid

Hyam Christian ibid

Alisbury Lovell ibid

John & Arthur Ide Ireland

Downs bound out.

16 S. James sailed Altwick Canaries Hamburgh

18 Judith Holland sailed 21 Barbadoes

Will. & Kath. Lawrence ibid

Robert Palister ibid

John Smith sailed 21 Jamaica

Southampton Porier ibid

Nathaniel Harie sailed 21 Venice

Mansel Trevifa Antigua

Macham Partis ibid

El. & Millisent Smith ibid

Totness Curling N. England

Don Francisca Salter Lisbon

Pearl Diamond ibid

Thomasin Thorowgood ibid

Cato Jell Leghorn

Three Sisters Fletcher sailed 21 Gibraltar

Prosp. Solomon Richardso. ibid

Fortune Gill ibid

Ruby Chambers sailed 21 Maryland

James and Mary Johnson ibid

William Jurrel ibid

Clapham Russel ibid

Union Burrel Cadiz

Britannic Peddie S. Kitt

Teneriffe Russel sailed 19 Newfoundla.

Friend Adv. Hanbie Virginia

Gould Crane ibid

Anne Artington sailed 21 France

Mary Jennings Genoa

Dragon Faulkner Bourdeaux

Endeavour Hartley Malaga

Industry Shepherds. sailed 21 N. England

Happy Jane Echingha. Seville

Union Holmans N. England

William Allen Oporto

Wisbich Norris ibid

Stirling Rowe Milford

Robert Hunter Bristol

19 Henrietta sailed Jones ——— N. England

21 Concord sailed Lux ibid

28 Union Timberman Newcastle Lisbon

Prince Will. Beresford East-Indies

Lethilear Shepherd ibid

29 Martin and Hill French sail'd through S. Kitts

* * *

ADVERTISEMENTS.

This Day is published,

A Sermon preached before the Right Hon, the Lord Mayor, Aldermen, and Citizens of London, on Friday Jan. 30, being the Fast-Day for the execrable Murder. of King Charles I. By Joseph Trapp, D. D. Minister of Christ Church and St. Leonard's Foster-lane, London. Published at the Request of the Lord Mayor and the Sheriff.

Printed for Lawton Gilliver at Homer's Head against St. Dunstan's Church, Fleet-street.

* * *

This Day is Publish'd,

THE Truth of the Christian Faith asserted, and proved not demonstrable by Natural, but by Supernatural Light only; agreeable to the Doctrine of the People call'd Quakers. In which the most prevalent Arguments of Atheists and Modern Deists are consider'd. By R. M. Address'd to his Brethren, the Clergy of the Church of England.

And of the Tree of Knowledge God said, In the Day thou eatest thereof, thou shall surely die. Gen. 2. 17.

And Jesus said, Blessed art thou, Simon, for Flesh and Blood hath not revealed it to thee, but my Father which is in Heaven. Matt. xvi. 17.

Printed by J. Huggonson in Bartholomew-Close. And Sold by J. Roberts at the Oxford Arms in Warwick-lane. (Price One Shilling.)

* * *

This Day are Publish'd,

Printed together in 8vo exactly from the Dublin Copies. Price 6 d.

A LIBEL on Dr. DELANY and a certain great Lord, by Dr. Sw———, occasioned by a certain Epistle to ———. 2. An Epistle to his Excellency the Lord Carteret, by Dr. D———y. 3. An Epistle on an Epistle, or a Christmas Box for Dr. De———y. 4. Dr. Swift's Proposal for preventing the Children of poor People from being a Burden to their Parents or Country, and for making them beneficial to to their Country.

N.B. There is a spurious Edition of this Collection, Printed for A. Moore, first published under the Title of A Satire, &c. and since twice altered, in Imitation of the above, and tho' pretended to be a second Edition, contains the Errors of the first, and is still incorrect. The Key of this Libel will be added to the next Piece of this Author which shall come over, and will be published by Capt. Gulliver.

Printed for Captain Gulliver near the Temple, and sold at the Pamphlet Shops.

Where may be had, the third Edition, of

Cadenus and Vanessa, or the Judgment of Venus. A Poem. By Dr. Swift. Price 4 d.

* * *

This Day is Publish'd,

THE Foreigner's Guide: Or, a necessary and instructive Companion, both for the Foreigner and Native, in their Tour through the Cities of London and Westminster. Giving,

1st. A general Description of these two Cities, with an Account of their respective Government.

2dly. A Description of the Royal Palaces, Noblemans Houses, publick Buildings, Churches, streets, Squares, and the most remarkable Places in and near the famous Metropolis: With an Account of the Inns of Court, Royal Society, publick Walks, Diversions, remarkable Days, Coast Days, Post Days. And,

3dly. A Description of the several villages in the Neighbourhood, as Chelsea, Kensington, Richmond, Greenwich, Woolwich, Hamstead; and alto others more remote, viz. Hampton-Court, Windsor, Oxford, Cambridge. Blenheim, New-Market Horse Races, Epsom, Tunbridge Bath. And,

4thly. An Account of the Rates of Coaches, Watermen; and also the Rates of Post Horses; with the Roads to Dover and Harwich.

Very useful and entertaining both to Foreigner and Native, and done into English and French.

Where may be had,

LOVE LETTERS on all Occasions, lately passed between Persons on Distinction. Collected by Mrs. Eliz. Haywood.

Pleasure with Sorrow, Peace with War allay'd,

Liberty fetter'd, Hope by Fear dismay'd;

Imbitter'd Honey, Earnest mix'd with Play,

Are, Love! the Emblems of thy sov'reign Sway.

Printed for, and sold by Francis Cogan, at the Middle Temple Gate in Fleet street.

* * *

For the Benefit of those Persons who are afflicted with the DROPSY,

Mrs. Eliz. Knell, who lives next Door to the Baker and Basket in Middle-street, Cloth-fair, near West-smithfield,

STILL continues to perform great Cures in the Dropsy, of both Sexes and all Ages.

Mr. Lecount in Dr. Frier's Court in Little Britain, has lately received a Cure by the said Miss. Knell's excellent Remedy.

N.B. An Account may be had of several Cures at the Place aforesaid.

* * *

LONDON: Printed and Sold by J. Roberts in Warwick-Lane, and at the Pamphlet-Shops of London and Westminster; and also at the Pegasus (vulgarly called the Flying-Horse) in Grubstreet, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in. (Price Two Pence.)

↑ New System of the Spleen and Vapours, p. 7.

↑ Ibid. p. 389.


