The Grub-street Journal — June 4th, 1730

Exported from Wikisource on May 12, 2026

Numb. 22.

The Grub-street Journal.

* * *

Thursday, JUNE 4. 1730.

* * *

Who flings most filth, and wide pollutes around

The stream, be his the Weekly Journals bound.

Dunciad, B. II.

MR. Pamphleteero desir'd leave to read to the Society a paragraph or two out of the last London Journal, May 30. which he did, as follows. 'The visionary and whimsical, the disappointed and envious, poor and idle Fellows, half-Scholars, and scarce half-Wits, have been always troubling the World with Schemes of Reformation.'———Mr. Orthodoxo, begging pardon for the interruption, said The observation was very just, and that this very Author had given a very flagrant instance of the truth of it in his Journal of May 16, where he had recommended the study of natural or experimental Philosophy, to the intire exclusion of Divinity; and had proposed to reform the world by the reading of the book of Nature, which book alone he affirmed would infallibly teach a man the will of his Creator, and his own duty, and save him the trouble of reading any other Books.

Then Mr. Pamphleteero proceeded: 'We swarm at this time with State Mountebanks, Political Quacks, and Reforming Vermin; who, without a Shilling in their Pockets to buy a Dinner, and without one Virtue to cover 'em from Infamy, write Satyrs upon the Age, and cry aloud for Orthodoxy in the Church, and against Corruption in the State.———Some saucy pert Fellows, through their own ill conduct thrown upon the World, offer the service of their Pen to a Great man for Bread, and humbly beg to become sordid Advocates for Power, and Patrons of Veniality: but fancying that they are not rewarded equal [he means equally] to their Merit, they strut, look big, vow revenge, and immediately turn Pamphleteers and Journalists against the Government. Nonjuring Jacobite Priests, shabby, wandring, vicious, ignorant Parsons without a Cure, Night-house Wits, and beggarly Poetasters, are our great scribbling Statemen, and railing Advocates for publick National Faith, and public Roman virtue.' Thus far our Author.

Mr. President, Tho' this Society passed a Resolution, Jan. 21. not to publish any Political Dissertations in their Journal, yet since several of our Members do it weekly in other Papers, those Dissertations come properly under our cognizance, and we ought to commend or censure those, whose labours in that kind deserve either our approbation or animadversion. And I think we should take particular care, as far as we are able, to promote civility and politeness among those of different Parties; and oblige them to treat one another like Gentlemen, with decency and good manners. But above all, we should hinder, as much as possible, all scandalous Reflections upon the Persons or Professions of each other. On this account I thought proper to read to you the foregoing paragraph, in which the Author abuses several learned Persons among you, with the most opprobrious names, calling them visionary, whimsical, disappointed, envious, poor, idle Fellows, Half-scholars, scarce Half-wits, State Mountebanks, Political Quacks, Reforming Vermin; saucy pert Fellows; nonjuring Jacobite Priests; flabby, wandring, vicious, ignorant Parsons without a Cure; Night-house-wits and beggarly Poetasters. This strain of Rhetoric he certainly learned in our Society, and which may properly be used towards some Persons, and on some occasions: but it is base and ungrateful in him, to turn this artillery against us. The upbraiding some of us with our poverty and inability to buy a dinner, is a plain proof, that notwithstanding his aversion to Divinity, he has not preserved his Humanity. The want of virtue (a want in his opinion much less to be dreaded than the want of a dinner) which he objects to us in the next place, is a vile, general aspersion, built on no other foundation than a political Maxim, always asserted by the superior, and as constantly denied by the inferior, Party. The maxim is this, That whoever write against the present administration of the Government, have not one virtue to cover 'em from infamy. Which is equally true with that Maxim generally received by Dedicators, That all those who are at any time in the Administration, while they continue therein, have all the virtues which can adorn the brightest character. Some of you, Gentlemen, it seems, have offered the service of your pen to a Great man for bread; but fancying your selves not rewarded according to your merit, you strut, look big, (at which I much wonder, since you have now neither money in your pockets, nor dinner in your belly) vow revenge, and immediately turn Pamphleteers and Journalists against the Government. In this accusation I see nothing that bears hard upon you, but the imputation of pride and vanity, which made you overvalue your services, and desert your Patrons. And indeed if the case be as this Gentleman has represented it, I think you are inexcusable. For not only Poverty and Pride are very inconsistent; but you have likewise acted very inconsistently with your own offers, and your own interests. You had offered the service of your pen to a Great man for bread. Did he not give you that, and meat with it? If he did, why was you dissatisfied, and so ambitious as to grasp at more? Why were you so ungrateful as to turn against the Great man who fed you? Had you continued that, which, it seems, you had humbly begged to become, viz. sordid Advocates of power, and Patrons of venality (tho' poor Patrons who wrote for bread) you had then become Whole-scholars and Whole-wits; you had had the inward comfort of a dinner; and the outward cloak of virtue to cover you from infamy, and might have made in all respects as good a figure as this learned and loyal Gentleman. But I presume the Representation is intirely, or at least partly false, and that you either never made any such offers, or else declined the performance of them upon better motives. However, be the case as it will, such language is unjustifiable, and altogether unfit to be used by one learned Gentleman towards another.

Then Mr. Orthodoxo spake in the following manner: Tho' the Observations made by the Gentleman who spoke last are very just, as far as he has proceeded, yet I think the latter Part of the Paragraph in question much worse than the former, 'Nonjuring Jacobite Priests, shabby, wandring, vicious, ignorant Parsons without a Cure, Night-house Wits, and beggarly Poet-tasters, are our great scribbling Statemen, and railing Advocates for public national faith, and public Roman virtue.' This is a most false and malicious representation of our Society, as if it incouraged Persons who are not only disaffected, but declared enemies to the present happy Establishment. As I have by taking the oaths qualified my self to hold that preferment I enjoy (with which, tho' not very considerable, I am perfectly satisfied) I cannot look upon my self, as particularly aimed at under the names of Jacobite Priest, or Parson without a Cure. Nor do I know any of my Brethren, who are concerned in writing Political Papers, who can come under either of these denominations. But e'en in case some nonjuring Jacobite Priest had sent a Poetical letter to our Brother Fog, which he had printed in his Journal, if it were sence and truth in it self, would the political opinions of the Author make it degenerate into nonsence or falsehood? Or could this grea change in any writing be effected solely by the circumstances of the Writer; who may perhaps be a shabby, wandering, viscous, ignorant Parson, and yet capable enough of transcribing the sentiments of virtuous and leared men? If a vicious and ignorant Clergy-men advane any thing of his own head, I think it ought to be examined very carefully by the Reader; who will indeed be naturally very backward to be swayed at all by such authority. But I cannot see the reasonableness of what this Gentleman has added to compleat the character of shabby, wandering, vicious, ignorant Parson, and render him altogether unworthy of the least regard, that he is without a Cure. It is true, the two former parts of thi character may be removed by a good Cure, and a shabby, wandering Parson may thereby become a spruce an settled Divine: but preferment, I fear, has no tendency to remove the two latter parts of the character, vic and ignorance, and to render a Clergyman virtuous ad learned. If therefore such a Person be vicious and ignorant, it signifies nothing in this argument, whether he be so with, or without a Cure. Nay, let a man be very leased and virtuous, and have likewise very good Preferment; yet this can give him no advantage in controversial Writing, over one who is in a meaner and more unsettled condition. Does this Gentleman himself pay a great deference to the reasonings of the Bishop of St. David's han to those of Mr. Woolston, because the former has a very large Cure, and the latter is a shabby, wandering Parson without any? What then makes the difference in the case, and gives one shabby wandering, &c. Parson a prerogative above another? Heterodoxy. This covers a multitude of Sins. And this Gentleman frankly declares in this very Journal, 'I never knew any orthodox men, who had just notions of Morality; and, I think, from the Nature of their Heads, 'tis impossible they should.' This is pronounc'd ex Cathedra, and with all the assurance of Old Infallible: in imitation of whom, he has lately exercis'd two illustrious Acts of supreme Authority. One in his Journ. Numb. 563. where he established a new Canon of Scripture, removing the Books of the Old and New Testament, and substituting in their stead the Book of Nature. His words are quoted in our Journ. Numb. 10. The other is in his Journ. Numb 564. being the last but one, where he has taken upon him intirely to alter the old Martyrology, striking out at once all the Martyrs of Antiquity, and placing in their room a new set of Saints, even the Rebels of Forty one. His words are these: 'They fought for us, and they perished for us: these were Martyrs indeed! not to idle Opinions and senseless Speculations; but to their Country, to Virtue, to the Laws and Liberties of England; and we, their happy sons, reap the benefit of those virtues here, which entitled them to so great a share of happiness hereafter.' These Patriots were first canonized by Pope Baxter, who placed them in The Saints everlasting Rest; which did not prove so to them: for in the next edition after the Restoration, he left them all out, but how he disposed of them was never known: this Gentleman can tell best where he found them.

Mr. Mævius then stood up and said, Mr. President, I should not have troubled the Society with a word on this occasion, had only my own case, and that of my Poetical Brethren been concerned, who I suppose are here intended, by the terms of Night-house-wits and beggarly Poetasters. But when I see almost our whole Society struck at, by some or other of the polite appellations here bestowed upon us, I think we ought to take this matter into consideration, and shew our just resentment against this Apostate member; who, I don't doubt, we shall find upon Enquiry either to have been, or perhaps actually to be, one of those very characters which he endeavours to represent in such a contemptible light. However I do assure him, I think it much more reputable to be a Parson without a Cure, or a beggarly Poetaster, speaking or writing his own real sentiments, as occasion offers, than to be a Parson highly preferred, or a well-fed Poetaster, vilely prostituting his pen for pay to the dictates of others.

Here Mr. President interpos'd, and said, Gentlemen, I think enough has been spoken upon this Subject. The zeal of this Gentleman for the present establishment, I highly approve: but I wish it had not carried him so far into general and invidious Reflections upon our Members. Had he known any one of us who deserv'd the character of a Jacobite writing weekly against the Government, and pointed him out; I should have joined heartily with him against any such Person: more especially, if he were a nonjuring Jacobite Priest, whom I have always had in the utmost detestation. But as his Reflections are general, I must declare them to be unjust aspersions upon us, and that he justly deserves to be censur'd on this account. However, I think it the best way to do nothing precipitately, but to suspend our censure for a while, in hopes that in one of his future Journals he may soon set this matter in a clear light, to the full satisfaction of this learned Society.

Mr. Bavius then presented a Specimen of a Satyr which he received from an unknown hand, which being read, was ordered to be printed, as follow:

Blasphemy as old as the Creation; or, the Newgate Divine. A Satyr. Address'd to the modern advocates of Irreligion, Profaneness and Infidelity.

Quod si in hoc erro, quod animos hominum immortales esse credam, libenter erro: nec nilhi hunc errorem, quo delector, dum vivo, extorqueri volo.Tully.

Quicquid dixit.———Omnium animarum socius.Tind———l.

WANT, or the pride of being deem'd polite,

Tempts gay apostates to deceive, and write;

Each sacred truth to scorn, or to disclaim,

Prompted by hunger some, and some by fame.

Few starving Tind———ls wou'd renounce their creed,

Who on pure faith cou'd better drink, and feed:

Nor for a dinner in stale errors deal,

If found Divinity wou'd fetch a meal.

Woolston wou'd own a Saviour, dread a Hell,

Like gainful unbelief, did scripture sell;

The Godhead he derides, wou'd learn to fear,

Like Blasphemy, if Miracles sold dear.

But who can blame each Sage, in judgment nice?

Good pagan Doctrines yield a better price:

Who calculate exact their gains each day,

And know what wages Heaven and Satan pay;

Each with that piety and prudence blest;

The pow'r to own which cloath'd and fed 'em best.

Their pot each morn an allegory fills;

The Spirit saves 'em, while the Letter kills.

Not half so plump, the mystic Doctor's made

By real Substance, as by type and Shade;

'Twas weak to print cheap truths, when for a lye

They knew the British markets ran so high.

(All books in fraud and falshood that excel,

Like goods forbid by law, more sure to sell;)

Unwise the project, and the author's vain,

Maintaining texts, that wou'd not them maintain.

All truths in their opinion but a cheat,

Whose patrons oft must write,———but seldom eat.

Impossible a Scheme shou'd be divine

Whose authors sup on curds, on Trotters dine;

Or any faith a heavenly sanction boast,

That feeds nor all its friends with boil'd, and roast.

This[1] Tind———l knew, and Pious vow'd to quit,

Doctrines, that wou'd but seldom turn his spit;

Tir'd with a Church, Whose Canons did define

That to believe was sweeter than to dine;

Within her pale for him allow'd no place,

Who thinks good eating the first Christian Grace;

That faith celestial only, that affords

The largest bumpers, and the fullest boards;

To number up his crimes he ne'er begins,

But always reckons Fasts amongst his sins;

(These deeply moan'd) and deems the guilt less great,

Each evening not to pray, than not to eat:

Less ravish'd with his duty than his cup,

He oft forgets to kneel, but ne'er to sup.

↑ A modern Epicurean Writer; very remarkable for his good eating and bad principles.

This Satyr is in the press, and will speedily be published.

* * *

LONDON.

Thursday, May 15.

Her Majesty hath been pleased to appoint Charles Longueville, Esq; to be her Auditor, 4 Even. Posts.

Mond. last died in child bed, at Weybridge in Surrey, the Lady of the R. H. Talbot Yelverton, E. of Sussex. Dep. E. Marshal of England. Ibid.

Frid. last the Lady of the R. H. the Lord St. John of Bletsoe was brought to bed of a Son at his seat in Bedfordshire. Daily Post.

A few days since died Capt. Wroth, Secondary of the Pipe-Office, a place worth 500l. per ann. And last week Charles Hornby, Esq; first Clerk of that office was appointed to succeed him. Post Boy.

We hear that the R. H. the Lord Hobart is appointed Lieut. and Custos Rotulorum of the County of Norfolk, in the room of the L. Visc. Townshend. 4 Even. Posts.

The following Gentlemen, whose seats in Parl. have been vacated, have been unanimously re-elected, viz. Will. Fortescue, Esq; for Newport in the isle of Wight. James Brudenel, Esq. for Andover. And Thom. Winnington, Esq; for Droitwich. Ibid.

Sir John Chaplyn, Bart, who marry'd Miss Morrice about 3 months since, died of the small Pox last Saturd. after 11 days illness. at his seat of Tetly in Lincolnshire, aged about 19. We hear he made a will, and left his Lady (Daughter of Mr. Morrice of Clare-market, who is said to be with child) his sole Executrix. Ibid.

It was the Hon. Will. Leveson Gower, Esq; who was married to Miss Grosvenor. St. James's and Lon. Even.

We hear that the R. H. the E. Ferrers, having for a considerable time had the misfortune to be disorder'd in his senses, is by the great care of Dr. Monroe so entirely restored, that this day he attended the R. H. the L. High Chancellor of great Britain, who was so well satisfied with his Lordship's present condition, as to order that his Lordship may have free liberty to go where he pleases. Lond Evening.

Mond. died at Brentwood, the Lady of Sir Thomas Ambrose. Ibid.

Yesterday died Dr. Dod an eminent Physician, at his house in Essex-street. Daily Journal. He is in perfect health. Post Boy.

Tuesd. the Lady of Richard Lloyd Esq; Member for Cardigan was brought to bed of a Daught. and both the Mother and Child died in a few hours. 4 Even. Posts.

Mr. Hayns, of Leicester-fields is sworn Taylor in ordinary to his Majesty, his R. H. the Prince, and his H. the Duke. Post Boy.

Circular Letters have been sent by order of the Treasury to all the Receivers Gen. of the Land tax, requiring them to transmit forthwith to their Lordships an account of their own estates real and personal; and likewise an account of those of their respective securities, &c. Daily Post.

Friday, May, 29.

Yesterday died at Guildford Mr. Child, a very eminent and rich Attorney. Courant.

Wedn. died at his house in Lemon-street Goodmans fields Mr. Hill jun. a wealthy Brewer, reputed worth 2000l. Post Boy.

Yesterday the R. rev. the L. Bishop of London began his triennial visitation at St. Pauls. The sermon was preached by the rev. Dr. Clarke, Rect. of S. Magnus by Lond. Bridge, after which his Lordship gave an excellent charge, Ibid. A very learned charge. D. Journ.

Wedn. last the Assizes ended at Ely, when 1 man was condemned for horse-stealing, 3 ordered to be whipt, and 2 to be transported. Daily Post.

Tuesday sat Myn Heer Hop, the Dutch Resident, was married at S. James's Church, to a Sister of Sir John Lambert, Bar. Daily Journal.

The same day Sir Rich. Hopkins. one of the Aldermen of this City, was translated from the Cutters to the Fishmongers Company; on which occasion the Assistants of each Company were handsomely entertain'd by him at Pontack's. Ibid.

Yesterday Mr. Haynes sen. was chosen upper Beadle of the Haberdashers Company. D. Post.

The same day Mr. William Bury was chosen Secretary of the Scotch Equivalent Company. Daily Journ.

We hear, that orders have been sent to the Commanders of the Transports lately hired for Don Carrot's expedition to Italy, to sail round to Portsmouth. Cour.

Mond. last being the Birth-day of his Grace the D. of Bedford, the same was observed at his Grace's seat at Wooburn-Abbey in Bedfordshire, who gave a very magnificent Entertainment o the neighbouring Gentlemen, &c. Post Boy.

His Grace the D. of Bedford lies dangerously ill, and 'tis feared, past all hopes of recovery, at his seat in Bedfordshire. Daily Post.

We are assured, that tis account was without foundation, his Grace being well recovered of a slight indisposition, which did not hinder his going abroad every day. Post Boy, June 1.

Saturday, May 30.

Yesterday being the anniversary of the restoration of K. Charles II. was observ'd by ringing of bells &c. The L. Mayor and Aldermen vest to S. Pauls, and heard a sermon suitable to the day preached by Dr. Middleton of S. Brides. Daily Post. An excellent sermon. Courant.

We are informed, that the K. of France has given Alderm. Parsons leave to import his beer into France duty free, which we hear will be worth him 2 or 3000l. p. ann. Post Boy.

Yesterday her Grace the Duchess of Norfolk removed from her lodgings in Poland-street, to her house in Pall-mall. Ibid.

Wedn. night about 12 a Gent. took water at Cupids bridge to come to Strand stairs; who as soon as he was landed, was knocked down, and robbed, by a person unknown, thought to be the watermen who brought him over, it being very dark. Ibid.

We hear, that the additional buildings of Greenwich Hospital will be finished in 2 months, when the L. Commissioners of the Admiralty will admit about 300 superannuated seamen, including cicers, to make up the number already there 1000. Corant.

Thursd. even. one Mr. Tomson and a boy coming up the river in his boat, loaded with 2000 lobsters, was sunk by a fish vesel sailing over her: the boy was drowned, but Mr. Tomson saved. Ibid.

The Politicians begin to talk with some confidence (but upon what foundation we know not) of a project of a Truce, or rather a suspicion of the Design of introducing Don Carlos into Ity for 3 years. D. Post.

The Politicians always talk with some confidence, and generally without any foundation, unless when they contradict their former assertions, in relation to the double match with Prussia, &c.

We hear that a Pension of 500l. per ann. was offered to the E. of Harborough, which his Lordship refused. Crafts-man. 15000l. Applebee's Journal.

From Wallingford we hear, that one Ant. Bar had 3 sons christened at their Church, which his Wife had at one birth, and who were all alive, and baptized by the names of Shem, Ham, and Japhet. Fog's Journal.

Durham, May 23. Thursd. a Gent. son to a Scotch Knight, riding post from hence for London, swore he would shoot the Boy if he did not hasten: the Boy told him, he could not: at which, taking the pistol (as believed) to fright him, his horse playing his head, occasioned the discharge; and he shot his own hand off: it hanging by a little flesh or tendon, he call'd, and swore eagerly at the Boy to cut it off, who accordingly did so. Upon which he put his hand into his pocket, and rode on seemingly without any concern at all: and 'tis reported he would proceed to London. Univ. Spectator.

This morn. died at her house in Great George-street, Han. square, the R. H. Henrietta Count. Dow. of Dalkeith, after a tedious indisposition. She was 2d Daught. to Lawrence late E. of Rochester. London Even.

A marriage is speedily to be consummated between the L. Brudenell, son and heir to the E. of Cardigan, and the Lady Mary, youngest daughter to his Grace the D. of Mountague: after which his Lordship is to set out for Brussels and Italy on his travels, being in the 17th year of his age. Ibid.

Monday, June 1.

Frid. last John Doyle sent for an Undertaker to Newgate, to agree with him about his burial, and writ with his own hand the following words to be chased in plate, and put upon his coffin, John Doyle died June 1, 1730, in the 31st year of his age. And on sat. the coffin was carried to his cell for his approbation. Post Boy.

After died he should have added being hanged.

The Rev. Dr. Croxall was lately installed one of the Prebends [Prebendaries] in the Church of Hereford. Ibid.

Sat. morn. his Excell. Hor. Walpole, Esq; set out for the Court of France. Ibid.

Yesterday, the eldest son of John Temple, Esq; of Moor Park, in Surrey, Neph. to the L. Palmeston, arrived at his Father's house in Pall Mall, having been abroad several years. D. Post.

Thursd. Sir John Woodhouse was robbed by 2 Foot pads, as he was going to Hampstead, of 5 guineas: his coach man was also robbed of his money, and shoe-buckles. Ibid.

Tuesday, June 7.

Last week a washer-woman at Oliver's-mount was robbed of wet linnen to the value of upwards of 150l. being washer woman to the Right Hon. the L. Walpole, and other noble Families; and we hear an Irishman is taken up on suspicion of the robbery. Courant.

Sat. last orders were given by the secretary at war, for Battalion of the first Regiment of Guards, consisting of 700 men, with 4 other Regiments, 2 in Ireland, and 2 in Quarters, to be in readiness at an hour's warning to attend the expedition of Don Carlos: the Guards will embark at the Tower soon after his Majesty's review, and be reinforced by the other Regiments from their respective quarters. Post Boy.

Yesterday the great Cause that has been so long depending in the Court of Exchequer (before heard in the H. of Lords) between Col. Harrison and Mr. Moses Hart, a Jew, was heard at the Exchequer Court; and after a hearing of several hours, the Report was confirmed in favour of Col. Harrison. Ibid.

Yesterday John Doyle and John Young, 2 Highwaymen, were carried from Newgate and executed at Tyburn, the former in a mourning coach, and the latter in a cart: they both seemed to behave in a becoming manner, and care was taken by their friends that they may be decently interred. D. Post.

Mr. Woolston's second Part of his Defence of his Discourses on Miracles, just published, has given such Offence to the Clergy, that they can't bear the Sight of him: Thereupon he was desired to forbear coming to the Chapter Coffee-house, or they, who resort thither, would leave the house. Daily Journal.

On Sunday Morning dy'd of the Small Pox at Enfield, John Spencer, Esq: who was Heir to Mr. Spencer, formerly an eminent Merchant, and is said to be worth 150000l. tho' he chuses to live in a private manner: This young Gentleman was his Nephew, and chang'd his Name from Desborough to Spencer by Act of Parliament, and was next week to have been enter'd in the Temple. Even. Post.

Wednesday, June 3.

Yesterday there was a Court of Aldermen at Guildhall, when a Motion was made for printing the Rev. Dr. Middleton's Sermon preached before the Right Hon. the Lord-Mayor, St. Paul's Cathedral, upon the 19th of May last; but it was carry'd in the Negative. Post Boy.

Col. Chartres has taken Lodgings in Piccadilly, over-against the Right Honourable the Earl of Burlington's House. Ibid.

Newcastle, May 19. The 25th the 30l. Plate was won by Mr. Charlton's black Gelding Farmer.———26th. 10l. Plate by Mr. Armstrong's Mare Isabella.———27th. The Innkeepers 20l. Plate by Mr. Watson's Horse Careless.———28. The Gold Cup 50 Guineas by Mr. Hutton's Grey Horse Cripple.———The 40l. Plate by Sir William Middleton's Chesnut Horse Scipio.

On Wednesday was held a Lodge of Free Masons, several Gentlemen were admitted; after which, they went to a Play in their Aprons, &c. the faithful Irishman, with a suitable Epilogue and Prologue, with the Song of Molly Mog; and never such an appearance of Ladies and Gentlemen were seen together at this Place.

Dublin, May 19. Last week his Grace the A. B. of Dublin held his Primary visitation, which he opened with an elegant speech to the Clergy, in the conclusion of which he took notice of the Papist inhabitants of this City, abusing a Curate of S. Catherine's in the discharge of his office, and assaulting him in a barbarous manner and declared, that if they would not rest satisfied under the lenity of the present Government, and enjoy their own religion quietly, without interfering with the Protestants, he would not take his satisfaction of particular persons; but would with the utmost rigour prosecute Several of the principal Popish Clergy, which are now taken no notice of. Cour. May 28.

May 23. Wednesday night a great fire broke out in the Batchelors Walk, which consumed 3 houses. We are assured by letters from Belfast, that all sorts of grain are sold at very reasonable raes: and that they have found out a new way of catching rats by snares, 2 boys there having got in a short time no less than 4 dozen, some as big as whelps. Mr. Kimberly, the Attorney, obtained a reprieve till this day, when several thousands of spectators were assembled to see him pass by: about 3 this afternoon he got a farther reprieve till wednesday next. Post Boy, 30.

From the Pegasus in Grub Street.

Tho' the [late] Bishop of Rochester was a great enemy to our Society, in the time of his prosperity: yet we do not think it at all honourable to take our revenge upon him in his adversity; and in a whole body to attack a person, who has no power or opportunity to defend himself. It is indeed very common, for some particular Members of our Fraternity to take all advantages against their Adversaries; but this is an ungenerous way of proceeding, and such as we think our selves oblig'd to condemn. In the One Epistle to Mr. Pope, occasion'd by two lately publish'd, the Bishop is represented as the Plague of all Churches, a Confounder of States, a Sop in verse, and a Bungler in Affairs. We shall not give a repetition of the vindication of the Bishop in all these particulars, as it is printed a Letter to the Author of Fog's Journal: but we cannot forbear declaring, that it was a generous action in the Vindicator, whoever he was. And we think it very proper to insert here part of the Introduction to that Vindication. 'Every body knows that Prelate must be a stranger to their Quarrel.―He is banish'd from his Country, from the Conversation of his Friends, and even from a Correspondence with all Englishmen; which one would think might secure him from all attacks of this nature.―No Man of spirit would strike another while he was down, or had his hands tied: and this is the condition of that unfortunate Prelate. If the Authors have fallen upon this method with a view of gaining the Public over to their side, I believe they are mistaken. For I rather think it will stir indignation in every generous breast, as it did against the Author of the London Journal at the time of this Bishop's Exile: for even that Writer's own party were shocked, to find a person (suppos'd to be a Brother) fall upon him at that Juncture, in such an unkind, and even unchristian manner."

VERSES by Mr. C———l.

FROM serious arts. or glorious arms,

 You bid me seek the palm of fame,

And fly those sweet seducing charms,

 That tempt me to a Poet's name.

Advice, my Friend, is but in vain,

 Whene'er in love, or verse we stray;

The pleasing poison turns our brain,

 And we against our selves obey.

Those passions differ but in this:

 The maid possess'd, we strait remove;

Unfated with Poetick bliss,

 the more w'enjoy, the more we love.

Would the coy Muse on me but smile;

 Thro' life's short space I'd her pursue:

Nor fame, nor wealth, should me beguile;

 For her I'd bid 'em both adieu.

I ask not, Fate, the Statesman's skill,

 Realms to direct, and Kingdoms guide,

Wisdom, like Walpole's, which is still

 More perfect found, the more 'tis try'd.

I wish not fame's loud trump should breathe

 My name with those that Kingdoms spoil:

Nor do I, for their laurel wreath,

 Or envy Cæsar, or Argyle.

To shine in verse is all my aim:

 My fondest wish, my darling hope,

Is but to emulate the fame

 Of Waller, Dryden, or of Pope.

* * *

FOREIGN NEWS.

Thursday, May 28.

Constantinople, Apr. 9. Some days before P. Thamas's triumphal entry into Ispahan, he detached the Col. General with 40,000 men, to hinder Sultan Esreff, who was fled towards Schiras, from entring into the Province of Candahar, his native Country. In Egypt, the troops of Zulfukar Bey having rallied after the battle they lost in July, against Kercheck Bey and Soliman Bey, Chiefs of the Rebels, gave them battle again, not far from Grand Cairo, and gained considerable victory, Soliman Bey having been killed, and Kercheck Hey escaped by flight but with the assistance of the Armenians, he soon set on foot another army; which is at present near Cairo, where they commit great disorders. Daily Post.

Vienna, May 20. In a Conference at Laxembourg the 18th, the Generals who are to command in Italy, were appointed, namely, the Field Marshal Count Mercy, and the Generals Harrach, Veterani, Philippi, Waterborn, and Keiserwaiter. Ibid.

Brussels, May 19. The 1000 years Jubilee since the death of St. Hubert, which happened at Tarvuren, was begun there this day; and a double Octave is to be kept for the greater devotion. The A. Dutchess will go to that Castle in ceremony: it is now 900 years since the Infante Isabella celebrated the 900 years Jubilee on the same day. Cour.

Amsterdam, June 2. N S. Besides the Arabian and Turkish Dictionary already printed at Constantinople, they have printed 2 other Books, 1 Fol. of 150 Pages, entitled Tuchfatil-Kubar: the Author Hagi Califa, and the Editor Ibrahim Mutafarrica; it treats of the Terrestrial Globe, of the Sphere and Geography. It contains a Description of the Venetian Territories, of Albania, the Island of Corfu, and other Estates bordering upon Turky, and also an account of the Turkish wars by sea, from the taking of Constantinople to the year 1653; with a Description of the Arsenal of Constantinople, &c. The other book is a quarto of 294 pages, entitled, Tarih Sayah, that is, The account of a Traveller. It is a translation of the History of the late Revolution in Persia, written in Lat. Ibrahim Mutafarrica, who translated it, does not name his Author: but as this history is very like that which Father Circeau published of that Revolution, it is believed the Translator made use of the same Original. This Book contains the history of the Sophis of Persia to Schah Hussein, who was dethroned by Mitt-Mahmoud, or Mirriweys, with the history of Sultan Esreff. &c.

Yesterday arrived a Mail from France.

Moscow, Apr. 28. The Princes Basil and Alexis Dolgorucky, have been exiled to the Frontiers of the Dominions of this Empire. It is assured, that P. Thamas has taken a resolution of making himself master, if possible, of all the conquests in Persia made by the late Czar Peter I. and has offered the Grand Seignior to ratify the treaty made with the Sultan Esreff, on condition his Highness will give no succours to the Muscovites. The Jews have lent that Prince above 2,000,000 of Rubels since his taking Ispahan; and the Armenians and Indians have also advanced considerable sums. D. Journ.

Friday, May 29.

Extract of a Letter from Balaguer, May 10. As for News I can only tell you, that we are preparing with great alacrity for a red hot war. An embargo is laid upon all the barques and vessels that are in any Port between Cadiz and Barcelona, for the transportation of troops. Post Boy.

Paris, May 27. Several English Quality are lately arrived; as the Countess of Sandwich, a Lady much admired here for her fine wit; the L. Petre, and his Mother the Lady Dowager, as much esteemed for her piety and extensive charity. Mr. Parsons is also here, an Alderman of London, a Gentleman extremely well received at Court, for his good humour, generosity, and downright honesty. The Duke de Bouillon has set a noble example by his last will; in consideration of the vast Pomp that attends the Interrment of a Prince of his Qualily, he had estimated the expence that is usually thrown away on those occasions, and ordered it to be given to the poor; and his funeral to be performed in the simplest manner that could be. By the last letters from Rome, we understand that the Conclave is just as far advanced in their election for Pope as when they began. The Cardinal de Fleury has had 10 votes for the Triple Diadem 3 days together, and Cardinal Polignac 26. Post Boy.

Petersburgh, May 8. The Empress has not only confirmed all the antient privileges of the Nobility, and of the Cities conquered from Sweden; but has ordered, that no person shall henceforward be admitted to ecclesiastical or civil offices, who has not studied 2 years in the University of Dorpt. D. Jour.

Saturday, May 30.

Gibraltar, Apr. 6. O.S. Here we have as yet no benefit from our present Peace with Spain, they not allowing us any Communication with them, nor any supplies to be brought us either by sea or land; nor will they admit any British Ships from hence, except such as call at Tetuan for a Bill of health from the Flyers. They continue in their huts very near us. We are not suffered to make any use of the Mills, or Devil's Tower. The mouth of the Mine is walled up, and the Rock blown away under it, so that there is no getting up to it. It runs 90 or 100 yards in a hard solid Rock towards Willis's Battery, and about 5 foot broad, except at the mouth, which was wide, but cou'd never have been brought to be of service to them. They keep up Tesse, and until they are removed from thence, the best part of the bay will be rendered unserviceable whenever we have a misunderstanding with Spain. At S. Rogue they continue to build; and Algeziras is become a very large Town. Lond. Journal.

'All our advices from Vienna, as well as from Italy, confirm us in the Opinion, that the Emperor resolves not to accede to the Treaty of Seville: And the same Letters assure us, that the Grand Duke has consented to receive the Imperial Troops into his Towas, in case the Spaniards should attempt to land. Fog's Jour.

New York, Feb. 16. Sat. last 2 stoops arrived here, 1 from Jamaica, the other from Carolina: the first gives an account, that the Spaniards have taken 14 English vessels in the Bay; and that a Spanish Pyrate also lately large sloop belonging to Mr. Sunset of Boston, and in cold blood cut the Master and all his men to pieces saving only the Cabbin-boy. Weekly Journal.

This day arrived the Mail from Holland.

Mofcow, May 11. The Coronation of the Empress was yesterday performed here with great magnificence. St. James's Even. Post.

Paris, June 2. We are waiting with much impatience the return of 2 Expresses that have been sent to the Courts of Spain and Vienna, and whose answers, we verily believe, will decide the grand affair, either of peace or war and it is assured, that the Marq. de Spinola will continue here till the return of both those Expresses. Lond Even.

Wednesday, June 3.

Yesterday in the evening arrived the Mail from Holland.

Amsterdam, June 9. They write from Vienna of the 27th past, that a Courier was arrived from Florence, advising, that the Grand Duke had again declared against the Introduction of the Spanish Troops into his Dominions; and that he would assist the Emperor with Money to carry on a War, in case of a Rupture. D. Journ.

On Tuesday Stocks were

South-Sea 103 1 4th, 103 3 8ths, 1 half. South Sea Annuity 106 1 4th a 3 8ths. Bank 141 1 8th, a 1 4th. India 190, 190 1 half, a 3 4ths. Three per Cent. Annuity 96 3 8ths. Million Bank 106, a 7. African 47. York Buildings 18 1 4th, a 1 half Royal Assurance (100 l. paid in) 93 3 4th. London ditto (13l. paid in) 122 1 8th. Bank Circulation 7l. 15s. South Sea Bonds 4l. 16s. India ditto 5l. 8s. English Copper 3l. 15s. Welch ditto 1l. 11s.

Prices of Goods at Bear Key on Monday.

per Quarter

Wheat 30 to 31

Rye 22 to 26

Barley 21 to 24

Horse Beans 20 to 26

Hog Peas 22 to 26

Boiling Peas 26 to 30

Pale Malt 22 to 29

Brown Malt 21 to 27

Tares 20 to 24

Coals 22s. to 25s. per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 25s. to 38s. per Hundred.

Hops 1729 39s. to 55s. per Hundred.

Rape Seed 15l. to 161. per last.

The Course of the Exchange.

Amsterdam 34 5

Ditto at Sight 343

Rotterdam 34 6

Antwerp 35 1

Hamburgh 33

Paris at Sight 32 5 8ths

Bourdeaux at sight 32 1 half

Cadiz 42 1 half a 3 8ths

Madrid 42 3 qrs. a 5 8ths

Bilboa 42 1 8th

Leghorn 51 1 half

Genoa 54 1 half

Venice 49

Lisbon 5s. 6d. 1 half

Porto 5s. 5d. 5 8ths

Dublin 11 1 4th

* * *

To the Worthy Livery-Men of the City of LONDON.

Gentlemen,

YOUR Vote and Interest are humbly desired for

HENRY RAPER, Esq;

Citizen and Painter-Stainer;

AND

JAMES CHAMBERS, Esq;

Citizen and Goldsmith;

To be Sheriffs of this City and County of Middlesex, for the Year ensuing; who are the Two foremost in the List of those Gentlemen that for many Years past have been nominated by several Lord Mayors to serve that Office.

N.B. It has been unanimously resolved in Common-Council, that for the future all Sheriffs Fines shall be appropriated ONLY towards building a Mansion-House for the Lord Mayor, so much wanted to support the Honour and Dignity of this Great City.

* * *

ADVERTISEMENTS.

Speedily will be published,

Number II.

[To be continued.]

AN Author to be Lett: Being a History of the past and present Transactions of the Members of the Bathos: In which will be fully and faithfully delineated the character of that modest, ingenious, tall, young Man Jemmy Moore Smythe. By Iscarios Hackney.

We, being neither Scholars, Doctors, nor Divines, call our selves Gentlemen; which sure no body will deny, because one of us the Son of a Footman, One, &c.

Grub street Journal, No 19.

N.B. Soon after will also be published, The Gentlemen of the Dunciad. A Poem. By Mr. Savage, with a Preface.

Printed for L. Gilliver, at Homer's Head against St. Dunstan's Church, Fleet-street.

* * *

This Day is published,

Printed on a superfine Paper, in two Volumes in Quarto,

SOME Observations made in travelling through France, Italy, &c. in the Years 1720, 1721 and 1722: Containing a large and particular Account of the most remarkable Curiosities in those Countries, as well such as relate to their Manners, Customs, religious Orders, Ceremonies, &c. as likewise of their Architecture, Paintings, Sculpture, and other Antiquities, which are esteemed most worthy of the Observation of an English Traveller. With some short Remarks on the Air, Soil, Productions, Trade, Manufactures at several Places, occasionally interspersed. By Edward Wright, Esq; illustrated with 40 curious Drawings, design'd upon the Spot by the Author, and engrav'd on Copper by the best Hands.

Printed for Messieurs Ward and Wicksteed in the Inner Temple Lane.

* * *

Just published,

THE Law against Bankrupts: Or, a Treatise wherein the Statutes against Bankrupts are explained by several Cases, Resolutions, Judgments, and Decrees, both at Common-Law, and in Chancery. Together with the Learning of Declarations and Pleadings relating thereunto. To which are likewise added, Forms and Directions for Commissioners, and Precedents fit for the perusal of all Lawyers, Merchants and Tradesmen.

Sic utere tuis, ut aliena non Lædas.

The fifth Edition. To which is not added, An Appendix of all the Statutes relating to Bankrupts, to the Year 1725. By Tho. Goodinge, Serjeant at Law. Printed by E. and R. Nutt, and R. Gosling, (Assigns of Edward Sayer, Esq;) for F. Cogan, at the Middle-Temple Gate Fleet-street.

* * *

Just published,

PROPOSALS for Printing by Subscription, a beautiful and correction Edition of ROBERTI STEPHANI Thesaurus Lingue Latinæ. Compared with the best Editions of the Classics, the References adjusted and supplied by J. MARTYN, F.R.S., and the whole corrected and revised from the Press by R. RUSSEL, M.A.

The great Usefulness of this Work having render'd it scarce (tho' it has passed four Impressions) that the best Edition is now sold for at least sixteen Pounds, it is presumed that the Re-printing of it, with these Improvements, will be very acceptable to all the Learned in Europe.

This Work is to be printed from the last Edition (printed at Lyons, containing 653 Sheets, divided into four Tomes) and will be rendered much more useful, by citing not only the Books but Chapters of the Prose Authors, and even the Lines of the Poets; which being adapted to the improved Editions of the Classics, we doubt not will be as agreeable to the Studious, as laborious to the Editors.

It will be printed in the same Manner, and on as good Paper, as the Specimen annexed to the Proposals.

The Price to Subscribers will be six Guineas a Sett in Sheets; only one to be paid down, two on the Delivery of the first Volume (which will contain about 170 Sheets) and one more for each of the other three Volumes.

Some Copies will be printed on a larger Paper for the Curious, at nine Guineas a Sett in Sheets; two to be paid down, two for the first Volume, two for the second, one for the third, and two for the last.

As soon as 200 are subscribed for, the Work shall be put to Press.

The Names and Titles of the Subscribers will be prefixed to the first Volume.

When the Subscription is closed, the Price will be raised to eight Guineas for the small Paper, and twelve the large.

Receipts for the Subscription-Money are signed by all the Proprietors, which they will pay into the Hands of Francis Child, Esq; Alderman, and return it to the Subscribers by Christmas next, if there is not sufficient Encouragement.

Subscriptions are taken in by the Editors; and J. Ratley, at the Dove in Pater-Noster Row; A. Vandenhoeck, at Virgil's Head, over-against the New Church in the Strand; F. Cogan, at the Middle-Temple-Gate, Fleet-Street; and by the Printers, S. Palmer and J. Huggonson, in Bartholomew-Close.

* * *

This Day is Publish'd

THE LIFE of the Right Rev. Dr. White Kennett, late Lord Bishop of Peterborough; with several original Letters of the late Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr. Tennison; the late Earl of Sunderland; Bishop Kennett, &c. and some curious original Papers and Records, never before published. And also

The Foreigner's Guide: Or, a necessary and instructive Companion, both for the Foreigner and Native, in their Tour through the Cities of London and Westminster. Giving,

1st. A general Description of these two Cities, with an Account of their respective Government.

2dly. A Description of the Royal Palaces, Noblemens Houses, publick Buildings, Churches, Streets, Squares, and the most remarkable Places in and near the famous Metropolis: With an Account of the Inns of Court, Royal Society, publick Walks, Diversions, remarkable Days, Court Days, Post Days. And,

3dly. A Description of the several villages in the Neighbourhood; as Chelsea, Kensington, Richmond, Greenwich, Woolwich, Hampstead; and also others more remote, viz. Hampton-Court, Windsor, Oxford, Cambridge, Blenheim, New-Market Horse Races, Epson, Tunbridge, Bath. And,

4thly. An Account of the Rates of Coaches, Watermen; and also the Rates of Post Horses; with the Roads to Dover and Harwich.

Very useful and entertaining both to Foreigner and Native, and done into English and French.

Where may be had,

LOVE LETTERS on all Occasions, lately passed between Persons of Distinction. Collected by Mrs. Eliza. Haywood,

Pleasure with Sorrow, Peace with War allay'd,

Liberty fetter'd, Hope by Fear dismay'd;

Imbitter'd Honey, Earnest mix'd with Play,

Are, Love! the Emblems of thy sov'reign Sway.

Printed for, and sold by Francis Cogan, at the Middle Temple Gate in Fleet-street.

* * *

Books printed and sold by John Brotherton at the Bible in Cornhill.

Life of Oliver Cromwel, 8vo.

Collection of Novels, 12mo, 6 Vol.

D'Ano's Tales of the Fairies, 3 Vol. 12mo.

Free Thoughts on Religion.

Pilgrim's Progress in 8vo, with Cuts, 2 Vol.

Spectators, 8 Vol.

Prideaux Connection, 4 Vol.

Musical Misc. 4 Vol. 8vo.

The Dancing Master, by Mr. John Essex, 4to.

Boyer's Telemachus, 12mo.

Gay's Fables, 8vo.

Gordon's Geog. Grammar.

Boyer's Dictionary in 4to, or 8vo.

Blais's Sermons, 5 Vol. 8vo.

Shakespear's Plays.

Addison's Works, 4 Vol.

Lockyer's Trade to India

Abelard's Letters

Garth's Ovid, 2 Vol.

Plutarch's Lives, 8 Vol.

Don Quixot, 2 Vol.

Guardians, 2 Vol.

Ovid's Epistles

Dryden's Virgil.

* * *

This Day is Publish'd

Beautifully Printed, in one neat Pocket Vo-Volume, by the particular Direction of Mr. Samuel Briscoe, deceas'd,

The three intire Volumes of

THE Posthumous Works of that celebrated Poet Mr. SAMUEL BUTLER, (Author of Hudibras) in Verse and Prose. Written in the Time of the Grand Rebellion, and in the Reign of King Charles II. Being a Collection of inimitable Satires, Speeches and Reflections upon those Times. Published from Original MSS. and scarce and valuable Pieces formerly printed. The third Edition, corrected. Printed by and for Richard Reily in Little Britain.

Of whom may be had, just published,

FRENCH and ENGLISH PARALLELS; or, the French Pronunciation made so easy, that by the Help of this Book alone, with out the Assistance of any Master the English Learner may attain the true Pronunciation of the French Tongue, by a Method entirely new.

* * *

This Day is Published,

[Price Four Pence.]

A General History of Executions, Numb. III

(To be continued.)

BEING a full Account of the four four following Malefactors executed at Tyburn, May 12, 1730, viz. Abraham Israel, a Jew, and David Aubert, a Swiss, for robbing their Masters. Thomas Williams, for House-breaking. James Dalton, the audacious Street-robber, House-breaker, Foot-pad, Pick-pocket, &c. With an ample Relation of his Life and Adventures, his Pranks, Thefts, and Robberies, both by Sea and Land, abroad and at home, during the Space of above twenty Years, from ten Years of Age to his Death. Also of Hugh Houghton, condemned for robbing the Bristol-Mail, who hang'd himself in Newgate, with his Handkerchief and Belt. Printed by R. Newton, at St. John's-Gate, and sold by the Booksellers in Town and Country.

Where may be had, Price 4d each,

Numb. I. containing the Life of Everett, a noted Highwayman, of Goodburn, a Poet, and of two other Malefactors.

Numb. II. containing an Account of five Malefactors, and a Description of a large Gang of Thieves and Cheats, which infest at Times all parts of the Kingdom; of great Use to Officers of Parishes, and private Persons, for guarding against and detecting the said Rogues.

Note, This Work meeting with Encouragement will be continued every Sessions, and the Numbers regularly published soon after the execution, and will contain an Account of the Criminals executed and transported throughout England, in order to make a compleat Volume at the Year's End, when a general Index will be given for that Purpose. And

On Saturday next will be publish'd No. IV. Containing an Account of the Lives, &c. of Doyle and Young, two notorious Highway-men, executed at Tybourn; also of six Malefactors hang'd at the Heavy-tree, near Exeter, who were try'd and condemn'd at the Lent Assizes, held there before the late Lord chief Baron Pengelly.

* * *

Just publish'd,

THE Female Parson; or, Beau in the Sudds. An Opera, as it is acted at the New Theatre in the Hay-market. By Mr. Charles Coffey, Author of the Beggar's Wedding.

Printed for Fran. Cogan, at the Middle-Temple-gate in Fleet-street, and Lawton Gillver over against St. Dunstan's Church. Price one Shilling.

Where may be had,

The Amours of Philario and Olinda; or, the Intrigues of Windsor: A genuine History. Price one Shilling. Also

An ESSAY founded on Arguments Natural and Moral, proving the Immortality of the Soul. Translated from the Original Manuscript of the Archbishop of Cambray. Price one Shilling.

* * *

Just published,

TWO Epistles to Mr. Pope concerning the Authors of the Age. And the Merchant; on Trade, Navigation and Peace. Designed to give a new but just Idea, of the Pindaric Ode, and to shew the Scripture Style of the Prophets, highly proper for it. Dedicated to the Duke of Chandos.

Both by the Author of the Universal Passion.

Printed for Lawton Gilliver at Homer's Head against St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet-street.

* * *

LONDON: Printed for Capt. Gulliver and F. Cogan near the Temple, Mr. Jackson in Pall-Mall, and J. Brotherton near the Exchange, and Sold by J. Roberts in Warwick-Lane, where Letters and Advertisements, &c. are taken in. [Price Two Pence.]

