The Grub-street Journal — March 19th, 1730

Exported from Wikisource on May 12, 2026

Numb. XI.

The Grub-street Journal.

* * *

Thursday, MARCH 19. 1730.

* * *

Scribimus indocti, doctique. Hor.

To the learned Mr. Bavius, at the Pegasus in Grub-street.

SIR, Cambridge, March 15, 1730.

IT is with the utmost pleasure that we see here a Book published at London under the title of A Course of Lectures upon the Materia Medica, antient and modern, read in the Physick Schools at Cambridge, &c. by R. Bradley, F.R.S. and Professor of Botany in the University of Cambridge, dedicated to the Chancellor, Vice-Chancellor, and the rest of the Heads of the University. It was particularly obliging in our worthy Professor to print these Lectures; seeing not above 3 or 4 of our Students had the pleasure of hearing them read. As the Title page gave me a great comfort, in informing me that we already had Physick Schools for the Professors to read their private Courses of Lectures: So before I was got thro' the second page, I was charm'd with the full assurance of our soon having a Physick Garden; and such an one as will become the worth and grandeur of this University. [1] Which, no doubt, will be easily effected, if the money raised on this occasion be intrusted in the hands of our Professor, whose Oeconomy is equal to his Learning; and whose integrity will be as beneficial to us, as his knowledge. The Book now before before me gives me a great idea of his Genius. For he scorns, like the vulgar writers on the Materia Medica, to copy in a servile manner from other Authors; and bravely deviating from the beaten road, gives us, almost in every Page, something equally new and surprising. I have not yet had leisure to read the whole thro' with such attention, as is due to so unparalelled a performance, but in a cursory view only I find so many extraordinary discoveries, that I cannot forbear taking notice of them.

The Stones like Marble, out of which Gold and Silver appear to drop as Gums do from Trees, are very noble. I question whether the King of Poland or Sir Hans Sloane were apprised of such valuable Curiosities being in their collections; till our Professor was so kind as to take notice of them in this publick manner. It is strange too, that Dr. Woodward's Executors should be so negligent as to omit the mention of so valuable a Fossil, in the Catalogues they printed of the Dr.'s Cabinets, when we are assured in these Lectures, that we have of this sort, in that extraordinary Collection purchased by this University.[2]

The Spar, which is found in lead mines, is usually thrown into the Furnace, to absorb the Sulphur from the Metal, and so make it flux with greater ease: but on what false grounds this has been hitherto done, appears from our learned Professor's remark, that Spar abounds in Sulphur.[3]

It was a very curious method, which he tells us Samuel Raynardson, Esq; made use of to preserve the body of water contained in the outward Case of an Ætites.[4] This Gentleman, it seems, kept it for this purpose always in water. 1 doubt not but this method was suggested by Mr. Bradley, tho' he is so modest as not to mention it. It was, indeed, a most wonderfully ingenious Contrivance, for other wise the water within would have transuded thro' the Flint Stone, as it always does in the Collections of other Gentlemen.

I am glad to find Terra Sigillata Lemnia translated Cologn's Earth.[5] I was always of opinion that Lemnos and Cologn were the same place, notwithstanding our common Geographers place one in Germany, and the other in the Archipelago. It is with some pleasure too, that I find my opinion confirmed, that the Terra Japonica is not only called, but also really is an Earth. Mr. Dole, indeed, in his Pharmacologia endeavours to prove it to be a vegetable juice, because it not only dissolves in water, but is also incorporated with it, and gives it a red tincture, as many other inspissated Juices do. Nay, he says it does not separate from the water when filtred, as all Earths do; and turns entirely to ashes when calcin'd, which no Earth ever does. Kæmpfer too, in his History of Japan, calls it an inspissated Juice. But these Authors were certainly mistaken.

The Pearls and Crab's claws [6] are justly rank'd under the head of Minerals; as are the Gums [7] also, which, no doubt, belong to that Kingdom.

[8] The way of producing Gums from any Plant is new to me, and, I believe to every one else. It is done, it seems, by expressing the Juice of the Plant, and boiling it to a proper Consistency; for otherwise it would yield none at all.

It is an useful discovery, that Aloes, or (as our Professor calls it) Gum Aloes,[9] is produced by expressing the juice from the Leaves of the Plant. Boerhaave, indeed, says (in his Chemistry) that Aloes bruised together, yields a meer green juice, tho' the juice distilling from the same, when lightly broke or wounded, be of a golden colour. He was led into this opinion by some mistaken notions he had of the different juices in Plants. One Fabius Columna too, an Author of little credit among the Botanists, pretends that he obtained good Aloes by making oblique incisions in the Leaves of the Plants, and placing vessels underneath to receive the juice, which dropped from their veins. Pliny mentions something like this too, but these People were all greatly mistaken.

Mummy being found in the Hecatombs in [10] Egypt, is an information of no great use to us, indeed, as Physicians, but it may serve as a Specimen of our Professor's Learning.

Benzoinum has been hitherto writ in English Benjamin or Benzoin, but for the future, I hope, it will he always spelt after the new manner, Ben's wine.[11] The Flower of Ben's wine (we are told) produces a Butanum: what this Butanum is, none of my friends can tell me. I beg the favour of you, Sir, to ask Mr. Professor, when you see him at the Pegasus, and give me notice as soon as you have leisure.

Gum Anima, we are told, has been much esteemed by the Antients, they making it an Ingredient in their Perfumes.[12] Some of our Authors have supposed it not to have been known to the Antients; others have thought, that if it was known to them, it must be what Dioscorides called Amminea, and reckoned a bad sort of Myrrh. He says of it . For my part, I do not think our Gum is mentioned in any of the writings of the Antients now extant. I rather believe it is in some of their lost works, which, I suppose, our Professor designs to make a present of to this University, with the other things which he is so good as to promise us.

I am glad we shall be better able to find the Valerian, for the future. We have hitherto found it hardly any where about Cambridge but in bushy places, and a dry, chalky soil. We shall expect now to find it commonly in the woods, and on the sides of wet Banks.[13] That on the sides of wet Banks I take to be the fittest for physical uses.

The Ipecacuanha, we are told has of late [14] been made into a Bole, and given to the Quantity of a scruple at a time. I would recommend this to the perusal of our Physicians; who are so venturous, as to make no difficulty of prescribing half a dram, and often more, of this dangerous Root; which our Professor says is hardly ever given, but in Cases of the greatest Necessity.

These few observations have occurred to me on a very slight survey of these excellent Lectures. When I have considered them more carefully, I doubt not but I shall find a great number of Discoveries, as extraordinary, as they are new. I hope Mr. Professor will be so good as to continue his reading to us; for hitherto [15] the want of these Lectures publickly has occasioned many to seek them abroad, and fly to foreign Universities for that knowledge which we might gain at home. And, I hope, this good example will have such an effect, that [16] every Professor in their several Branches of Physick, will take their proper opportunities of reading to us, and explaining the several parts of their knowledge; that we may not want any thing among us, which is necessary to confirm that Character which has always been given to Cambridge and Oxford. I am,

Your very humble Servant.

↑ P. 4

↑ P. 14.

↑ P. 18.

↑ P. 48.

↑ P. 6.

↑ P. 75, 76.

↑ P. 81.

↑ P. 82.

↑ P. 84.

↑ P. 85.

↑ P. 30.

↑ P. 92.

↑ P. 122.

↑ P. 124.

↑ P. 31.

↑ Ibid.

* * *

This day is held the 4th and last general seal in Chancery after Hilary Term. Cour. D. Post. 4 Even. Posts.

They write from Winchester, that at the last Assizes an Information was tried between the King and some of the Inhabitants of Andover, for obstructing the officers of excise in the execution of a warrant from the Juffices of Peace of Hampshire; they believing they could justify such obstruction, by virtue of a Charter, that all offences arising within the Town of Andover were determinable only before the Magistrates of that Corporation. But notwithstanding such pretended exclusive Jurisdiction, the King obtained a verdict; and what the officers did by virtue of the said Warrant from the Justices of the County at large, was found to be legal. D. Post and Journ. St. James's and Lond. Even Posts.

Mr. Plumber of Hoddesdon's mare won a wager of 200 guineas of Mr. Armstrong, about coming from Hoddeston in one hour, which she performed in 50 minutes, when she came in yesterday morning to Shoreditch Church. P. Boy and The Even. Post.

The packet directed to the Post-master General found in Lincoln's-Inn Bog-house, being carried to the General Post Office, and being opened, was found to contain a great number of Bills and notes, but none of the Bank. Daily Journal, The Even. and Whitehall Even. Posts.

On Tuesday, at a general Court of the Royal African Company, a Resolution was unanimously agreed to, for impowering the Court of Assistants, to treat with the Parliament, in relation to the putting their Forts and Cities in a defensible state, or surrendering them to the benefit of their trade. The 4 Even. Posts.

On Tuesday night last, Mr. John Cardell, a Quaker, and an eminent Clothworker, in the Curtin, near Holloway-lane, Shoreditch, was attacked by some Street-Robbers, about a quarter past 7, under Moor-gate Postern; who came behind him, and knock'd him down, and took 100 l. out of his Breeches Pocket, tied up in a linen bag, which he received at the Bank that afternoon, besides 17 s. in silver, and a Pocket-book, in which were several promissory notes, to the value of 60 l. They endeavoured to take his Watch, but the Chain broke in pulling it out; by which he saved it. The Rogues stabb'd him in the right side with a Pen-knife, as it is supposed by the the wounds, and bruised him in a violent manner. Soon after, some Gentlemen coming by, they carried him into Moor-gate Coffee-house, and sent for Mr. Wheeler, an eminent Surgeon in Basinghall Street, who dressed his wounds; none of which appear to be mortal. Post Boy.

The Courant, Even. Post and Whitehall Even. have it a Cloth-worker and Napper in Hoglane, as he was passing under the right hand Postern going into Moorfields, a Fellow came behind him, shoved him down, and then fell on him, and immediately rifled his pockets on the left side, and then stabbed him on the other to make him turn. He robbed him of 100 l. 15 s. 10 d. half-penny, and notes to the amount of 62 l. The Daily Post says, several Footpads: but the Daily Journal, a Man. The Whitehall Even. adds, the breadth of the wound was about half an inch, and 4 inches in depth, but being slanting, not dangerous.

On friday last in the morning, a Man came to Captain Man of the Sunderland at Sheerness, pretending an order from L. Torrington, requiring his immediate attendance at the Admiralty; and offered his service to wait upon the Captain. This he did as far as Gravesend, where he put on a great Coat belonging to the Captain's servant; and carrying some of his baggage, gave him the slip. The Captain pursued his journey, and was not undeceived till he came to the Admiralty Office. The 4 Even. Posts.

Friday, March 14.

Yesterday the body of Riched Waters, who was drowned about 6 weeks ago, in passing London Bridge, was taken up at Wapping New stairs. Cour. D Post.

One Carroll, a private Centinel in the 3d regiment of Foot guards, who last friday was whipt for abusing his Officer, and a Justice of the Peace, was yesterday drumm'd out of the regiment with a Halter about his Neck. When the drums had left him at the Admiralty Gate, the Sergeant of the Company went to take the said Halter off his Neck, according to the usual custom; but Carroll refused to let him do it, swearing it was his right, and that he would have it; and accordingly went away with it. Courant.

Was whipt by the Drums on the Parade in S. James's Park, 20 Lashes; and afterwards stript of his regimental Cloaths and Accoutrements, and drumm'd out of the Regiment with a Halter about his Neck, for abusing several Constables and Watchmen in Drury-lane. Post Boy. But he omits the circumstance of his carrying off the halter; which was, no doubt, his due.

Yesterday Mr. Thomson was introduced to her Majesty by the Right. Hon the Earl of Grantham, and presented his Tragedy of Sophonisba, which is acting at the Theatre Royal in Drury lane; and was graciously received. Post Boy. Now acting with great Applause. D. Post.

Yesterday their Graces the Duke and Dutchess of Bedford came to Town with a great Retinue, to his Grace's House in Bloomsbury-square. Post Boy.

We hear that a great number of Palatine families have lately proposed to the Lords of Trade to go to settle in South Carolina, so that Province in a short time will, in all likelihood, be in a flourishing Condition; that delightful Country affording all the necessaries of life; and wanting only people to cultivate it. D. Journal

Yesterday morning, a Person was apprehended for breaking into the Warehouse of Mr. Travers, in Chambers-street, Goodman's fields. The top of the said Warehouse had been partly untiled, and some Tobacco stole thence about a week since, which occasioned a Watch there last night. There had been some Hogsheads, on which the Rogues stepp'd from the top of the House; which were last night removed, and some staves placed in the room thereof, which this Fellow lighting upon, fell down into the Warehouse; and was taken and committed to Newgate. D. Journal.

Saturday, March 14.

On thursday morning a Person was found robb'd and murder'd on Finchley-common. Courant, St. James's, and Whitehall Evening.

The same day, in the afternoon, a man was taken out of the New River-head, near Saddler's wells, who is supposed to have been murdered and robbed, by his Pockets being turned out, and being cut and mangled very much. He was carried to Clerkenwell burying ground to be seen openly, if that any Person should know to whom he belonged. Cour. The Even. St. James's, and Whitehall Evening.

On tuesday night last an Apprentice of Mr. Palmer, a Hat Dyer near the Maze-Pond, going along Tooley-street, with a basket of Hats on his Back, another Person passing by, leading a Bear muffled, the Bear laid hold of the Calf of his leg, and tore it quite off. Courant, St. James's, and Whitehall Evening.

The Duke and Dutchess of Bedford being happily reconciled to each other (as we hinted in one of our former) are gone to live at their House in Bloomsbury square; where yesterday a vast number of the Nobility, Quality, and Gentry resorted to congratulate their Graces on that occasio: His Grace gave 100 Guineas to be distributed among the poor. D. Post.

Yesterday their Graces were at Court, and waited on their Majesties at S. James's. Post Boy.

This day their Graces will go to Court, to pay their Compliments to the Royal Family. D. Post, the Even. St. James's and Lond. Even.

The Duke is appointed Governor of the Fenns in Bedfordshire, Lincolnshire, &c. Lond. Even.

Yesterday one of his Majesty's Messengers was dispatched from his Grace the Duke of Newcastle's Office, for the Court of Berlin, on some Affairs of Importance. Post Boy, The Even. Post.

On thursday night, the Spread Eagle Chocolate-house in Bridge-street, Covent-garden, (where a Common Gaming Table has been kept for some time past) was searched, by virtue of a Warrant under the hands and seals of Sir John Gonson, Chairman of the Quarter Sessions of the City, &c. of Westminster, William Cooper, Esq; Chairman of the Sessions for Middlesex, and six other Justices of the Peace: and several Gamesters were apprehended at the said Gaming House, particularly two noted Jews, who live in the City; and being carried before those worthy Magistrates, some of them were bound over to the Sessions, and others in Recognizances, with sufficient Sureties, to play no more during life, pursuant to the Statute of 33 Hen. VIII. cap. 9. and a Clause in an Act pasted last Session of Parliament. A Woman who opposed the Constables, and assisted some of the Gamesters to make their escapes, was also bound over to the next Sessions. Post Boy, Daily Post, and Journ. 4 Even. Posts.

The East India Company have lately had a considerable quantity of gold coined at the Tower, of which about 12000 l. are in pieces of 5 guineas, which have been delivered this week. Under the Bust, which is very curious, are the Letters E.I.C. D. Journ. S. James's, and Whitehall Even Posts.

Thursday evening, one Medcalf, of Theobald's Row, hang'd himself in an Ass House, near the Cock-pit at Grays-Inn Walks. D. Journ. The Even. S. James's and Whitehall Even. Posts.

It being very probable, that some witty person will observe, that this unfortunate man chose a proper place of execution, in the habitation of his Brethren; I must declare, that I think it an undeserved reflection upon them, none but two-legg'd Asses being ever guilty of so ridiculous an Action.

The South-Sea Company have received Letters from Vera Cruz, dated November 29, which mention, that the main mast of their Ship Prince Frederick proving defective, they had sollicited the Viceroy for time to repair the same, who granted no longer than 20 days; which time being too short, they were endeavouring to gain a longer; and did not doubt but that she would be ready to sail for England in January at farthest, with no other effects, but the Produce of her own Cargo. The Even, and St. James's Even. Posts.

Mr. Thomas Meares, an eminent Sadler, was knock'd down last tuesday night by Street Robbers, under the Coachway in Aldgate, and robbed of 5 Guineas and a half in Gold, some Silver, and his Watch. The Even. and St James's Even. Post.

Wednesday morning died suddenly in his chair, at breakfast, or Hampstead in Middlesex. James Woodburn, Esq; lately come of age, and possessed of an estate of about 800 l. per Ann. Ibid.

On saturday morning Feb. 28, was found dead in his bed at New College, Oxen. the Rev. Mr. Edw. Williams, M. A. and Fellow of that College: who was a sincere, upright, good man, and an illustrious pattern, worthy of all imitation. St James's Even. Post.

Thursday fe'nninght, a Gentleman lodging at Shropshire's Coffee-house, Charing-cross, dropt down dead, as he was drinking in the Coffee-room. Applebee's Journ.

Last tuesday died at Bristol Col. Earle, who [had] represented that City in several Parliaments. Lond. Ev. P.

Last monday the Coroners Inquest sat on the body of John Willimot, at the Coach and Horses in Southwark, who died on the 5th, of wounds he received of his Father-in-law John Banner; and brought their verdict willful murder. Craftsman. Mr. Hammond, a Surgeon, produced to the above Inquest 10 or 11 pieces of the Boy's scull, which he took out of the wounds. Applebee's Journal

In a Letter to a Member of Parliament, printed this week in the Post Boy, there are these words. 'The Petition of the Merchants offers 1,200,000 more to redeem the East India trade, for the common advantage of all their fellow Subjects, than the Company does, for the enjoyment of it exclusively, and to themselves only. And for whatever reasons that Petition may have been rejected, it still remains a proof, that the Ministers may, at any time, if they think fit, make a much better bargain for the Public, than is now proposed to them by the present Company.' Fog's Journal.

The Assizes at Hertford ended last wednesday 7-night, when 6 Malefactors received sentence of death. Ibid.

Yesterday 7-night the Assizes ended at Northampton, when 4 received sentence of death. Ibid.

Saturday last the Sessions ended at Brentwood, when 8 received sentence of death. Ibid.

It is thought the Duty on salt will be taken off, from Michaelmas next. We are informed, that there is collected on this duty 580,000 l. per Ann. but the Draw-backs and charges of collecting deducted, the neat money is about 180,000 l. per Ann. By the taking off this Duty near 600 Officers will be discharged. Lond. Journ.

At Oxford Assizes none were capitally convicted. British Journal.

Monday, March 15.

A 20 l. Bank Note, which was sent by the Bristol Mail, lately robbed, having been paid into the Excise-Office, was traced first to a Brewer, and then to a Victualler in St. Anne's; who declared, that he received it of one Hugh Norton, alias Horton, his Lodger, who was lately in the L. Herbert's Troop of Horse, and owed him 5 l. for which he had dunn'd him on saturday Feb. 28. and that on monday following he brought him the said Note, out of which he return'd back 15 l. after which be forsook his house. Endeavours being hereupon used to find him, on friday night he was seen go into a house in Long-acre, near where the Post-horse was found, the morning the Mail was robb'd. And on saturday morning being seen to go into a Coffee House in Gerrard-street, he was seiz'd at his coming out by 5 persons, whom he at first resisted. His new loging was immediately searched, where they found pieces of the leather-bags, in which the Letters by that Mail were put; 2 pistols loaded with slugs, and in his pocket book a Bank note for 25 l. and a bill of exchange for 100 l. He was carried to the General Post-Office that morning, where Sir William Billers took his examination. He pretended, that he was not the man; that he found the notes, &c. in Covent-garden, as also the private notes, which came to hand some days ago and that he directed them to the Post-Master General, fearing trouble. He was committed to Newgate; and there being strictly searched; about 300 l. in Bank bills, and Mr. Hoare's notes were found betwixt the lining and out-side of his breeches. Daily Journal.

On saturday the Assizes ended at Rochester in Kent, which proved what they call a Maiden Assizes. Cour.

Yesterday the Right Rev. the T. Bishop of Hereford, Brother to the D. of Bridgewater preached before their Majesties in the Chappel Royal at St. James's, and the Rev. Dr. Tyrwhit before his Highness the Duke of Cumberland, &c. Post Boy.

Tuesday, March 17.

On sunday evening Robert Drummond, one of the condemned Malefactors, found means to saw off his irons; which being timely discovered by the keepers, he was prevented, and is now double ironed and stapled down in the condemned Hold, Post Boy.

Yesterday one Richard Jones, a blind Man, was commited to Newgate by Sir Richard Hopkins, for feloniously stealing out of the stable of Ben. Cohen, a black gelding and a black mare, valued at 5 l. each. Courant.

On sunday night a Hackney Coachman, quarreling with another Person near Drury-lane, in the scuffle was thrown down on a piece of glass, which cut all the Sinews of his Arm; he went to a Surgeon Yesterday morning to have it dressed, but it having bled so violently before, he died in the Surgeon's House. Ibid.

Yesterday morning, between 5 and 6, the Worcester and Oxford Stages, and a Gentleman's Coach, were robbed between Kensington Gravel-Pits, by 3 Highwaymen, who took from the Passengers upwards of 30 l. and made off. Post Boy.

* * *

FOREIGN NEWS.

Thursday, March 12.

Seville, Feb. 13. The Court returned hither from Castelblanco the 19th. They write from Mequinez the 14th, that Muley Abdallah, the new King of Morocco, was, at last, in the peaceable possession of all his Father's dominions: and that he had published a decree, whereby the Fathers of the redemption of Captives are permitted to go and ransom Christian Slaves in any part of his dominions; and to maintain 16 Clergymen and a Surgeon in the Hospital at Mequinez, to assist the Slaves. Post Boy, S. James's and Whitehall Even. Posts.

Paris, March 10. Last week the King declared, that the Queen was 4 months gone with child. Ibid.

The Duke d'Antin has designed to get a smattering of the Art of Printing; and having been at the expence of casting a Font of smaller Types for the Louvre Printing-house, than were ever seen in France, he made the first Essay of them by an impression of Phadrus Fables in 12mo. containing but 86 pages. Post Boy, and Whitehall Even. Post.

Hanover, March 10. We are astonished at the advice we have received, that several Prussian Officers have again seized and carried off from the Frontiers, 23, either Subjects or Soldiers of this Electorate. An Express has been sent to give notice of it to the King of Great Britain. Daily Post, Lond. Even. Post.

Friday, March 13.

Genoa, Feb. 25. We hear from Corsica, that the Governor of that land having demanded of the inhabitants the Reimbursement of the value of the Corn which this Republick sent thither last year to relieve them in their necessity; they refused to do it, on pretence of their inability; and the Governor preparing to make use of force to compel them, they rose in arms to the number of 10000 men, and marched toward the capital; insomuch that the Governor was obliged, for safety, to retire into the Castle. We hear from Tunis, that the Dey had set at liberty all the slaves that had been taken on board the vessels that carry'd the Imperial flag. Daily Post.

Saturday, March 14.

Yesterday arrived the 2 Mails due from France.

Rome, Feb. 23. N.S. On the 14th the Pope assisted, with the sacred College, at the obsequies of Cardinal Anfidei, at S. Augustin's Church. After the Ceremony finding himself very faint, he returned to the Vatican, and went to bed. On the 19th in the evening he found himself worse, and took some remedies prescribed by the Physicians for his fever. On the 20th he heard mass in his Chamber, after which he drank chocolate. The same evening, his fever being considerably increased, messengers were sent to acquaint the Cardinals, that he was not in a capacity to hold the Consistory summoned for the next day in which it was supposed he designed to make his Nephew Don Mondiglio Orsini, Archbishop of Capua, a Cardinal. On the 21st he received the Communion at mass in his Chamber; and died about 4 in the afternoon, aged 80 years, and 19 days, being born Feb. 2. 1650.

His name was Peter-Francis, and he was eldest Son of Don Ferdinand Orsini or Ursini, 3d of the name, Duke de Gravina, and 10th Prince de Solafra, by Jane delta Tolfa, Daughter to the Duke de Grumo. Upon his Father's death, he resigned the titles and estates of the family, to Don Dominico his younger Brother, Father of the present Duke de Gravina. Afterwards he went to Venice, where he entered into the order of St. Dominick. He maintained at Venice, Bologna, and Naples, several Theses of Divinity, which gained him so great a reputation, that Pope Clement X. made him a Cardinal, Feb. 22, 1672. He at first refused that dignity; but was constrained to accept it, by virtue of a Brief from his Holiness. He went to Rome the 21st ensuing; and the fresh Instances he made to the Pope to be excused from accepting the Dignity of Cardinal, having proved as ineffectual as the former, he received the Cap in the Consistory, April 9. following. He preserved the name of Vincent Maria, which he took when he commenced a Dominican Fryer. Jan. 17, 1675, the Pope made him Præfect of the Congregation of the Council: and Feb. 5. following, he was nominated to the Bishoprick of Manfredonia in the Kingdom of Naples. Jan. 22, 1680, he was to that of Cesena in Romagna; and the 8th of Dec. 1684, to the Archbishoprick of Benevento, which he kept during his Pontificate; having appointed Cardinal Coscia his Coadjutor. He was made Sub dean of the sacred College, and Bishop of Porte, March 23, 1715, and would have been Dean upon the death of Cardinal Astalli, if he had not privately set out of Town, when he heard of the danger that Cardinal was in. He was the oldest Cardinal when he was chosen Pope on monday, May 29, 1724. He took the name of Benedict XIII. and was crowned June 4. following, being Whitsunday. Cardinal Augustin Pipia died also the 21st, in the 70th year of his age. Courant, Post Boy, Daily Post.

Paris, March 1. On the 11th the Lord Harrington had a long Conference at Versailles with the Cardinal de Fleury. The Gendarmerie have received orders to go into quarters in Flanders.

We have received advice from Florence, that on Feb. 12. they saw a Phænomenon, bearing from East to West, and consisting of a line of fire mix'd with smock, 9 or 10 feet broad.

It is observable, that formerly they killed at the Hotel Dieu about 3 or 400 Oxen during Lent: but last year 1400 were killed, and this Lent they will kill above 1500. Actions are fallen to about 1000 livres. Cour. P.B.

Paris, March 18. On the 15th the King's ordinance was published, for the Intendants of the Provinces to make a general review of all the militia before April 20, with orders to them to hold themselves in readiness to march at an hour's warning. On the 6th the Marquis d'Antin set out for Toulon, to take the command of the squadron equipping in that port. On the 11th Mons. de Maland gained his cause at the Tournelle, against Mad. de Faucheran, about her pretended lying in, 11 months after the death of her husband. The Child was declared supposititious, and the sentence of the Chatelet confirmed; whereby that Lady was sentenced to perpetual banishment, and to make the Amende honorable, with a halter about her neck, and a lighted torch in her hand. The Midwife concerned in the imposture is to attend her, and afterwards to be banished: and the Counsellor that contrived the whole scheme, and was to have married that Lady if she had carried her cause, is condemned to the galleys. Courant, Post Boy

Monday, March 16.

Yesterday arrived the Mails due from France, Flanders, and Holland.

Paris, March 12. N.S. A lead mine has newly been discovered in Bretagne; and another in the Bourbonnois; several tryals of which have been made with very good success. Actions are about 980 livres. Courant.

Hamburgh, March 17. Letters from Berlin advise, that a few days ago the King of Prussia held a great Council, at which the Ministers of Great Britain and France assisted; and that the former immediately dispatched a Courier to London, and the latter another to Paris. It is added, that his Prussian Majesty had referred his differences with the Court of Hanover to be decided by the Arbitrators, who are to make a final determination, in such manner as they shall think fit. Courant, Post Boy.

Cologn, March 17. Here goes a report, that the King of Sardinia, upon the offers made him in the present Juncture, has declared that he will observe an exact neutrality. Courant, Post Boy, D. Post.

Tuesday, March 17.

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from Holland.

Moscow, Feb. 23. N.S. Yesterday the corpse of the late Czar Peter II. was deposited in the Imperial vault in St. Michael's Church; and a particular account of that Ceremony is ordered to be published. Courant.

Feb. 28. Yesterday the Czarina made her publick entry into this city, amidst the loud acclamations of her people, and took up her Residence in the Imperial Castle of Kremelin; where her Czarian Majesty is in perfect health, and hears of no Disturbance in any part of this vast Empire.

Vienna, March 11. Yesterday 6 or 7 Couriers were dispatched into the hereditary Countries, to carry to the Troops that are to form the second Body designed for Italy, orders to begin their march thither forthwith. Most of these Troops are to take their route by the way of Trieste but those which are to go into the Kingdom of Naples will march to Fiume; from whence they are to be transported into Calabria, where they are most apprehensive there will be a descent. Daily Post.

Munich, March 14. On the 12th arrived here an express from Venice, and brought the bad news, that the Princess Sobieski, Daughter of the late King of Poland John III and Dutchess Dowager of Bavaria, Mother of our most serene Elector, died there on the 10th. Ibid.

Hague, March 24. The last Letters from Berlin import, that upon advice of the great preparations of war, that were made by a neighbouring Potentate, the King had sent orders to 12 Batallions and 50 squadrons that are in Prussia to begin their march, the routs being already settled; that they are forming at Magdebourg, Magazines sufficient to subsist for some weeks an army of 80000 men; and that his Prussian Majesty had sent an express to Moscow, to desire that Court to get in readiness the 24000 Russians, whom they are engaged to Furnish to his said Majesty, in case his dominions should be attacked by a foreign Power. According to all our advices from Italy, a war in that Country seems unavoidable. Ibid.

Rome, March 4. In the night between the 26th and 17th all the rich furniture and Plate of Cardinal Coscia was carried to the Castle of St. Angelo. We have received advice, that his Eminence, after having escaped on the 23d from the fury of the populace, set out the same night for Marino, from whence he went to Cisterna, to put himself into the protection of the Prince of Caserta. Ibid.

The General Shipping LIST.

Ships arriv'd at and sail'd from Great Britain, from March 10, to March 17.

Ships Captains From For

Bristol.

Arrived.

10 Mary Maddocks Jamaica

Lark Packer ditto

12 Hayman Strettons ditto

Little Increase ——— N. Carolina

Falmouth.

5 Williams Winter Topsham N. England.

Rob. & Jenny Pratt ditto ditto

6 Hanover Packet Osborne Lisbon Lisbon

sailed Phillipps Osbourn ——— ditto

Unicorn Polkinhorne ——— ditto

West-Country Traveller ——— ditto

9 Theophila Long ——— Barcelona

Union ——— ——— Streights

arriv. Gaylard Astwell Oporto ———

11 Friendship Kellaway Topsham N. England

Mary Andrews ditto ditto

Killigrew Coffin ditto ditto

Knebworth Brock Rotterdam Marseilles

Two Brothers Wells Guernsey Newfoundla.

Somerset Wish Topsham ditto

Two Brothers Howard ditto ditto

Mary ——— ditto Caroline

Phenix Potts Hamburgh Cadiz

Plymouth.

8 Adventure Watkins Virginia

10 Phenix King London Lisbon

Belly Galley Martin Genoa Amsterdam

Loyal Judith Coultis Naples ditto

Exchange Ellery Newcastle Oporto

Unicorn Patkinson Falmouth London

Dartmouth.

7 Mary Anne Tuck Croswick ———

sailed ——— Brock Rotterdam Lisbon

Providence ——— Biddeford Dieppe

Lamb Mulcreen Ostend Cork

13 Algarvis Olding London Faro

arriv. Marg. Sloop Hughs Limerick. Bilboa

Cowes.

9 Union Thompson Arundel Lisbon

Salutation Batchelour Dunkirk ditto

Will & Marg. Mangels Rotterdam Cork

10 Albion Cocks Arundel Lisbon

Mary Powel London Bourdeaux

May-flower Davis Tinby N. Bergin

Henry & Anne May Lisbon ditto

Inheritance Clark ditto ditto

Jane Tizard Shoreham Lisbon

Southampton.

10 4 Brothers Guillaume Lisbon ———

Mary Fry Oporto ———

15 Happy Return Matthews Rotterdam ———

fail'd Anne Gabourel Jersey ———

Elizabeth Maugier ditto ———

arriv'd Portsmouth.

6 Expedition Pendel Carmarthen London

7 Britannia Franklin Leghorn Amsterdam

Anne & Mary Holloway Bristol ———

Nightingale Robinson London Dieppe

Archer Archer ditto Gibraltar

Speedwell Sullivan Dunkirk Bilboa

11 Britannia Peddy Amsterdam Leghorn

sail'd 12th

6 sail'd Hap. Reb. Maugier ——— Gilbraltar

8 James & Eliz. Hogg ——— London

Expedition Pendel ——— ditto

Dolphin Dean Malaga Pool

13 Freegift Gregory Oporto ———

Dover.

10 Edw. & Mary Mitchel ——— Hamburgh

Will & Mary Porter ——— Amsterdam

arriv'd Mary Guerin ——— France

Providence Hammond ——— ditto

Downs bound home.

9 Dragon Clarke Leghorn

10 Blackstone Cornock Virginia ———

11 Expedition Talcot Cadiz ———

Pr. William Ford ditto ———

Philippa Osbourne Falmouth ———

S. Anthony Welch Oporto Lyn

14 Richard Pickman Carolina ———

Bolton Paddison Lisbon ———

Boulter Lyon ditto ———

Daro Landifield Oporto ———

Gravesend bound home.

10 Mary Worms Hamburgh ———

Unity Carsteens ditto ———

Winagunda Wyerhoff Bremen ———

Golden Kettle Frederick Holstein ———

Three Sisters Frederick Holstein ———

Anne and Eliz. Outman Amsterdam ———

Harmanes Johnson ditto ———

11 Guinea Packet Martin Guinea ———

Hare Baker Lisbon ———

Winchefter Mer. Newel Seville ———

Sun Learson Norway ———

Providence Wilce Seville ———

S. Paul Peterson Hamburgh ———

Katherine Clerembault Calais ———

12 John and Eliz. Dorrell Rotterdam ———

Champion Franklin Oporto ———

13 Berry Blake Lisbon ———

Dragon Clark Leghorn ———

Severn Carpenter ———

George Behn Hamburgh ———

Elton Clinch Jamaica ———

15 Lisbon Packet Hancock Lisbon ———

Mary and Eliz. Wright Norway ———

S. Peter Christian ditto ———

Will. & Rebec. Thompson Amsterdam ———

James & Rachel Golding ditto ———

Lady Eliz. Bredemus ditto ———

Argyle Diggs Carolina ———

Gaylard Astwell Oporto ———

Anne Pascoe ditto ———

Prince William Ford Cadiz ———

Europe Townsend Leghorn ———

16 Deptford Sloop Metcalf Offend ———

Jane and Mary Hadley Amsterdam ———

Gravesend bound out.

9 Albany Bryant New York

Britannic Kelsey Cadiz

10 Good-fellow Sanders Straights

Hallifax Procter ditto

Constantina Wright Philadelphia

Catherine Bowman Hambugh

Cath. and Eliz. Vancoln ditto

11 Lydia & Rachel Lemmon France

City of Loan Newman ditto

Fanny Giles Lisbon

Sarah Reynolds Virginia

12 Success Morfield Rotterdam

Betty Conway ditto

13 Hemens Wade Carolina

Lowthorp Duhurst Dublin

14 Codrington Shewell Antigua

Kent Wheeler Africa

Hart Hurst Virginia

John & Hester Clark ditto

Packham Waugh N. England

15 Susannah Cary ditto

Edw. and Eliz. Merrifield Ostend

Ashley Pain Jamaica

Vine Vickerman Norway

Anne Spalding Foan

Charks Bringman Bram

Remains Downs bound out.

10 Content Hume Maryland

Friends Adven. Mare Guiney

Shelborn Cowell ——— Jamaica

Surat March. Jones ——— S. Kitts

Mary Howgate Rotterdam Pool

All others sailed the 9th.

10 Antelope Morris Al' these came down Lisbon

Eagle Dornford N. England

Russel Paily ditto

Bedwell Wade Venice

11 Sarah Buffet Carolina

Albany Bryant New York

Anne Macreed Newfoundla.

Preston Haburn Lisbon

Success Watt Dublin

Jane Maccains Put back Havre

Supply Randolph Maryland

Britannia Kelsey Came down & sailed 11 Cadiz

Neptune Lawrence Malaga

Hallifax Procter ditto

Amelia Brooks Jamaica

Constantine Wright Philadelphia

Moleneaux Beard Oporto

Diana Burnet Bristol

Susanna Rogers ditto

John & Mary Truth ditto

Globe Urstone Chester

Everton Bucket Lisbon

13 Rem. Essington Dun Genoa Hamburgh

15 Expedition Duun sailed 15

Naples ditto

Prince Willis ditto

Loyal Judith Coultis Amsterdam

16 John & Hester Clark sailed Virginia

Hemens Wade Carolina

Lydia Price Maderas

Codrington Shewel Antegoa

Lowthorp Duhurst Dublin

John & Mary Huff Falmouth

Providence ——— Ireland

Wind 10, S.W. 11, W.S.W. 12, W. by N. 13, N. 14, E. by S. 15, W. by N. 16, W. by N.

The Course of the Exchange.

Amsterdam 34 a 4

Ditto at Sight 34 1

Rotterdam 34 5

Antwerp 35 2

Hamburgh 33 1

Paris at Sight 32 5 8ths

Bourdeaux at sight 32 1 half

Cadiz 42 5 8ths

Madrid 43

Bilboa 42 7 8ths

Leghorn 51 7 8ths

Genoa 54 7 8ths a 5.

Venice 49 7 8ths

Lisbon 5 s. 6 d. 1/4 a 2 8ths

Porto 5 s. 5 d. 3/4

Dublin 12

Prices of Goods at Bear Key on Tuesday.

per Quarter

Wheat 36 to 38

Rye 22 to 20

Barley 20 to 24

Oats 16 to 18

Horse Beans 26 to 28

Hog Peas 22 to 24

Boiling Peas 26 to 29

Pale Malt 26 to 30

Brown Malt 28 to 29

Tares 20 to 22

Coals 26 s. to 19 s. per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 25 s. to 35 s. per Hundred.

Hops 1729 39 s. to 59 s. per Hundred.

Rape Seed 15 l. to 16 l. 10s. per Last.

Rape-seed continues still rising at Newgate, and is ten Times dearer than in Scotland.

On Tuesday Stocks were

South-Sea 101 1 half. Annuities 106 1 8th. Bank 104 1 4th. Bank Circulation 6 l. 5 s. Premium. India 184 3 4ths. Three per Cent. Annuity 95. African 41. Royal Exchange Assurance 88 1 half. London Assurance 12. York Buildings 16 1 half. English Copper 3 l. 13 s. Welch ditto 1 l. 13 s. South Sea Bonds 4 l. 1 s. Premium. India Bonds 4 l. 18 s. ditto.

* * *

ADVERTISEMENTS.

WHEREAS Anne Strover, (Wife of Robert Strover, of Chatham, in the County of Kent, Shipwright) eloped from her said Husband about twenty Days since: This is to forewarn all manner of Persons, that they give no Credit to her, he never intending to pay any Debts she shall contract after the Date of this Paper.

* * *

This Day is Publish'd,

A Criticism on the new Sophonisba, a Tragedy, as it is Acted at the Theatre Royal in Drury Lane. Printed for F. Cogan at the Middle Temple Gate in Fleet-street.

* * *

This Day is Publish'd,

AN Answer to the Criticism on the New Tragedy of Sophonisba, lately Acted at the Theatre Royal in Drury-Lane.

By a Friend of the Authors.

Printed for F. Cogan, at the Middle Temple Gate in Fleet-street.

* * *

WHEREAS it was Advertis'd on Saturday the 7th Day of this instant March, in the Country Journal or Craftsman, That Richard Napleton, late of the Borough of Southwark in the County of Surry, Tallow-chandler and Soap Merchant, did take from the Dwelling House of the Widow Steele, late of Richmond in the said County of Surry, a Silver Tankard, valued at Sixteen Pounds. These are to inform the Publick, that the said Tankard was not stolen or clandestinely taken away by the said Napleton, but that the same was lent by her the said Widow Steele to the said Napleton, to raise Money upon, to answer a very great and emergent Occasion (for which the said Widow Steele took a Promissary Note for the same) and for the apprehending of the said Napleton a Reward was offer'd in the said Advertisement of two Guineas, to be paid by Joseph Bully of Richmond aforesaid, who has married the said Widow Steel. Therefore Margery Bully (late Widow Steele) doth hereby certify, that the said Tankard was not privately stollen or taken away by the said Napleton, but, with her Knowledge and Consent, leant him the said Napleton, for the Consideration and purpose aforesaid. And I the said Joseph Bully and Margery my wife, in Justice to the innocent and injur'd Man, do cause this Notice to be given to the Publick, and hereby ask the said Napleton's pardon for the said scandalous and malicious Advertisement: abovemention'd, we being, thro' Inadvertency, misled and ill advis'd by some evil dipos'd Persons, who have (as we since have been inform'd) a Pique against the said Napleton. Witness our Hands this 16th Day of March, 1729.

Marks

the ＋ of

Joseph Bully.

Margery Bully. Witness

Edward Cram, the Greyhound, Richmond.

Charles Ballard.

* * *

Thus Day is published,

Printed on a superfine Paper, in two Volumes in Quarto,

SOME Observations made in travelling through France, Italy, &c. in the Years 1720, 1721 and 1722: Containing a large and particular Account of the most remarkable Curiosities in those Counties, as well such as relates to their Manors, Customs, religious Orders, Ceremonies, &c. As likewise of their Architecture Paintings, Sculpture, and other Antiquities which are esteemed most worthy of the Observation of an English Traveller. With some short Remarks on the Air, Soil, Productions, Trade, Manufactures of several Places, occasionally interspersed. By Edward Wright, Esq; illustrated with 40 curious Drawings, design'd upon the Spot by the Author, and engrav'd on Copper by the best Hands.

Printed for Messieurs Ward and Wicksteed in the Inner Temple Lane.

* * *

This Day is published,

A Letter to Sir William Strickland, Bart. relating to the Coal Trade.

"We know very well, that nothing is more injurious to the Police, or municipal Constitution of any City or Colony, than the forcing of a particular Trade. Nothing more dangerous than the over-peopling any Manufacture, or multiplying the Traders or Dealers of whatever Vocation, beyond natural Proportion and the public Demand."

Shofisb. Char. vol. 3. Misc. 2. ch. 1.

Printed by S. Palmer and J. Huggonson in Bartholomew-Close, and sold by J. Wiford in Stationers-Court, near Ludgate, 1730.

* * *

Just Publish'd

The second Edition of

FREE Thoughts on Religion, the Church, and National Happiness. By B. M. revised, corrected and enlarged, with many Additions by the Author.

Printed for John Brotherton, at the Bible in Cornhill.

* * *

This Day is published,

And lately printed by Subscription,

A Complete History of Arianism and Socinianism, in 2 Vols. in 4to. a few remaining Copies unsubscribed for, are to be sold at the Subscription Price, by Mr. Gilliver, Bookseller, at Homer's Head over against St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet-street,

Where may be had,

1st. The Reverend Dr. Hick's Thesaurus Septentrionalium Lingu. vet, in 3 Toms. Folio. Printed at the Theatre in Oxen.

Arrian's History of Alexander's Expedition. Translated from the Greek, by Mr. Rooke, in 2 Vols. 8vo. with large Notes.

* * *

LONDON: Printed and Sold by J. Roberts in Warwick-Lane, where Letters and Advertisements are take in; and at the Pamphlet Shops of London and Westminster, and also at the Pegasus (vulgarly called the Flying-Horse) in Grub-street. (Price Two Pence.)

This work was published before January 1, 1931, and is in the public domain worldwide because the author died at least 100 years ago.


This e-book comes from the online library Wikisource. This multilingual digital library, built by volunteers, is committed to developing a free accessible collection of publications of every kind: novels, poems, magazines, letters...

We distribute our books for free, starting from works not copyrighted or published under a free license. You are free to use our e-books for any purpose (including commercial exploitation), under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 Unported license or, at your choice, those of the GNU FDL.



[The list of contributors has been omitted as requested.]

