The Grub-street Journal — April 9th, 1730

Exported from Wikisource on May 12, 2026

Numb. 14.

The Grub-street Journal.

* * *

Thursday, APRIL 9. 1730.

* * *

Some Considerations on the Limitation of Juries, in a Discourse read before the Grubæan Society, by Timothy Noodle, Esq;

———Fuit hæc sapientia quondam

Publica privatis secernere, sacra profanis;

Concubitu probibere vago, dare jure maritis.

Hor.

THE injudicious Verdicts, which some late Juries have brought in, having made it necessary to consider on some means of restraining them: I hope it will not be thought improper, if I lay before this learned Assembly some Reflections I have made on that important Subject. My design at present is to speak only of two Cases; Adultery and Rapes; which, as persons of fashion are chiefly concern'd in them, ought not to be left to the determination of those of a meaner rank, of whom our Juries are chiefly compos'd.

With regard to Adultery; it has been the custom, to impose an exorbitant Fine on the Gentleman, who had been free with another's wife. Now, in my opinion, nothing can be more absurd, than to inflict so grievous a punishment, for the commission of what all well-bred persons esteem a piece of Gallantry, and not a Crime. The virtuous Author of the Epistle from Calista to Altamont has set this in so beautiful a light, that I cannot deny myself the pleasure of repeating some part of that useful, as well as entertaining Poem:

Think, while my Falshood to thy Bed I own,

The hard Misfortune is not thine alone:

Survey the glit'ring World, and thousands see

False as Calista, and abus'd as thee.

Beauty is useless, should it fear to range,

Our Sex's Charter is the Love of Change:

Our Charms more Votaries than one demand,

And loath, like Gold, the griping Miser's hand.

In pleasure's Garden all our hours are pass'd,

We view the Fruit, and where we like, we taste.

He then proceeds to quote the Examples of several persons of distinction, under feign'd names, who were bred to these polite and free maxims, and acted accordingly. I confess, indeed, that a certain Gentleman was pleas'd, not long ago, to declare, that the Author of this Poem ought to be whipt and pillory'd. But as he is universally acknowledg'd to be the greatest adversary to this Society, now living, his censure will, without doubt, be understood as a confirmation of the truth of what I am urging. Since then this vulgarly reputed Crime is approved and practised by all who have any taste of politeness; I would propose that the Fine should be laid on the Husband, who disturbs the peace of Society, with making a publick complaint of an offence, at which he is bound in honour to connive. In such causes as these, the Jury should consist of Gentlemen of large Estates, who have been brought up in such free and polite maxims, as the Author before cited recommends. They ought also to be single men, because those who are married are apt to be prejudiced in favour of the Plaintiff. Were these Rules observ'd; I am persuaded the Peace of Society would be no longer disturb'd with these frivolous and vexations suits.

As for Rapes; they seem to me to be wholly out of the way of common Tradesmen. This, being one of those diversions which are proper only for Gentlemen, is often very improperly left to the determination of a Jury of Citizens, who are as unfit to judge in an affair of this Nature, as a Jury of Countrymen would be to inflict a penalty for breaking a hedge, or trampling down Corn. In a Case of this kind, the Jury ought to consist of Officers, or other Men of honour, who would be able to judge whether the accused person was qualified to ravish or not. And if it should appear, that the supposed Criminal is a person duly qualified, either by Birth, Education, or Fortune, for such Entertainments; and that the person pretending to be ravished is much inferior to him in Condition; then it might be thought proper to acquit the Gentleman honourably, and oblige the Woman to live with him, as long as he should please. But if he should desire to have no farther Conversation with her, she might be sent to some house of Correction. These Methods, if well pursued, would soon put an entire stop to these troublesome Indictments, and Gentlemen would be able to enjoy their proper diversions unmolested. As for persons of a lower Rank, a small Fine ought to be laid on them, not exceeding the penalty for taking rural diversions, without being qualified.

Some (I imagine) will be apt to object, that it will be very hard on the Women, that they should suffer violence; and afterwards not only have no redress, but run the risque also of being punished. To this I answer, that our well-bred Author before-cited shews, that Women of fashion are too polite, to give any occasion for violence. And as for those of an inferior Rank, they ought to be punished for refusing what they have no right to deny.

The two following Papers were sent by one of our constant Readers. The first shews how much the style of a Writer is elevated by being safe from the Insults of his Creditor. Our Correspondent assures us, that it is the Copy of a Letter from Mr. Turpin to his Correspondent or Dealer Mr. Samuel Turner, Thread-maker and Haberdasher in Friday-street, London. The other he affirms to be a true Copy of a Letter from a Lady to her Apothecary.

Godmanchester, near Huntingdon, Oct. 19, 1729.

Mr. Samuel Turner,

SINCE you are so hasty that you won't stay no longer, you shan't have the money at all: and I don't Care a Turd, for you and your Cits may kiss my Arse, for I value them not a Farthing.

Now you would be be glad to take half the Money for all, but you shan't have none.

SUR I have a silent pain in my back wich flies up in to my stomack and there it fixis and thare it holdes me all nite and this morin it as purg me upordes and dounwordes and I have a was dele of pain in my wourin and frobin when I make water and all the wittales that I have et since fridey I have not disgusted and I beg that yould mack som thing that tis proper for me and you hall here forder from me in the morning.

The Case of this Lady having been referred to the consideration of a Committee of the Physicians, who are Members of this Society, it was unanimously agreed to recommend the following Prescription, which is literally trancribed from the last Page of the learned Dr. Robinson's New Theory of Physick;

℞ Chalyb. lb j urinæ sani pueri lb j m. stent in leni calore, donec Consistentiam Massæ aridæ nactus erint; postea re pete opus ter quaterve temporibus, & tandem Massa arida facta, repone usui.[1]

↑ [Transcriber's note: An English translation of this 18th century recipe would be:

Take: One pound of iron and one pound of the urine of a healthy boy. Mix; let them stand in a gentle heat until they have obtained the consistency of a dry mass; afterwards repeat the work three or four times, and finally, when a dry mass is made, set it aside for use.]

* * *

LONDON.

Thursday, April 2.

Yesterday three more men were taken out dead from under the ruins of the late dreadful fire at Fetter-lane end, and 'tis fear'd there are others still behind. There are seven already found dead, and one of those that were maimed died in St. Bartholomew's hospital. Courant.

The Post Boy says of the seven that were sent to St. Bartholomew's hospital yesterday, two are already dead, and the rest are in a languishing Condition. The Daily Journal says yesterday 4 men were taken out, 2 of them Fire-men, the others so burnt that they could not be known, and of those who were sent to the hospital, 2 are dead. The St. James's Evening agrees with the Daily Journal, and adds, that it is currently reported that the number taken out dead are 16, besides several others who are bruised, in a languishing Condition. The Whitehall Evening tells us 5 of the Fire-men are known to be killed.

The same day began the Quarter Session for the City and liberty of Westminster, when Sir John Gunston opened the same with an elegant speech. Ibid.

The Daily Journal reads St John Gonson, Chairman, give an extraordinary charge, as usual, and particularly recommended their inquiry into all Libels, seditious Pamphlets and Gaming-houses.

On saturday night last part of the Bridge at Reading fell down, by which accident 2 men and a woman fell in; the men were both saved, but the woman was taken up last tuesday morning drowned. Ibid.

The same day the Hon. the Lord James Cavendish, Brother to his Grace the Duke of Devonshire, and Captain-Lieutenant of a Company in the third Regiment of Foot-guards, commanded by the Right Hon. the Earl of Dunmore, mounted the King's Guard at St. James's for the first time since he received his commission, and treated his officers in a very elegant manner upon that occasion. Post Boy.

Yesterday morning the spital sermon was preached at St. Bride's Church before the Rt. Hon. the Lord Mayor, Aldermen and Sheriffs by the Rev. Dr. Berriman, Rector of St. Mary Axe; and afterwards they returned to a dinner at Merchant-Taylors hall, where a fine entertainment was prepared by Sir John Williams. Ibid.

The same morning about 12 at noon, an old soldier and his wife coming from Chelsea, attempting to pass thro' the Barrier-gate at St. James's park, were stopt by a private Centinel upon Duty, the woman having a bundle; and her husband insisting upon her being admitted to pass thro', the Centinel stabb'd him in the Body with a Bayonet. Ibid.

On tuesday Thomas Ridge, Esq: was married to Mrs. Bently, Daughter of the Rev. Dr. Bently, Master of Trinity College in Cambridge. D. Post.

Yesterday one Bartholomew Nicholson was commited to Newgate by Sir William Billers, for robbing a man of 7 s. a penknife and a handkerchief: We hear the said Nicholson had two others along with him, they pretended to be constables, and would search the man, saying he was a thief, and so carried off the things abovementioned. Ibid.

The Cargo of the Prince Frederick, from La Vera Cruz, for account of the South-Sea Company, consists of 360,000 pieces of eight, 1062 serons of Cochineal, 211 serons of indigo, and 167 Tons of Logwood; the whole is, by a moderate Computation, esteemed worth 300,000 l. Daily Journal.

The Company have not fitted out more than 22 Ships for the Whale fishers, (the same number as last year) nor have any directions been given for building any more ships for that Service. Ibid.

Early yesterday morning a Duel was fought in Hyde-park between two Gentlemen, and after a small encounter, one of them having received a wound in his arm, and another in his body, they shook hands, and each having a Hackney Coach waiting, they went off without being known. Ibid.

This morning died Col. John Ellis, one of his Majesty's justices of the peace for the county of Middlesex. London Evening.

Friday, April 3.

The Rev. Mr. Cox, Lecturer of St. Michael Cornhill, having resigned the same, the Parishioners have appointed thursday the 4th of June, for the choice of another. Courant.

It is to be hoped, that a sufficient number of Candidates will offer, to supply the Parish with a fresh one every sunday during this interval, as usual.

Yesterday the poor Children taught and cloathed in the several Charity-schools of this City and Suburbs, to the number of about 4000, were conducted by their Trustees, Teachers, and Parish-beadles, to St. Sepulchre's Church, according to annual custom, where the Lord Bishop of Chester preached an excellent sermon suitable to the occasion. Ibid.

The same day, according to custom, the high Bailiff with the Burgesses of the liberty of Westminster, went from Westminster-hall to St. Margaret's Church, and after divine service was ended, proceeded to the Bell tavern in King-street to dinner; the Beadles of the several Parishes of Westminster and the high Bailiff's Officers attending in their places, and the waits playing before them. Ibid.

The Post Boy says William Morrice, Esq, the High Bailiff, was not present, being obliged to go to New-gate on the account of Col. Chartres's illness. Ibid.

The same morning a great match of Cricket was plaid in (illegible text) park, there being 13 of each side; among whom were his Grace the Duke of Richmond, his Grace the Duke of Devonshire, and divers others of the Nobility and Gentry. Ibid.

The Earl of Lowther is preparing to set out in quality of his Majesty's first Commissioner to the Kirk of Scotland Ibid.

The Post Boy reads the Earl of London.

On Wednesday last a Gentleman of the Life guards and Mr. Aandrews a Clock-maker, drinking at an Ale-house in Long-acre, and some words arising, agreed to end it with a duel; but the former ran the latter thro' his sword Arm, and so they were parted without doing any farther mischief. Post Boy.

Quære, Which is the sword Arm of a Clock-maker?

Yesterday two soldiers of the first Regiment were whipt by the Drums on the Parade in St. James's park for neglect of Duty, who received 50 lashes each. Ibid.

Yesterday the Corpse of one James Mitchel, a Fire-men, was dug out from under the rubbish of the late fire at Fetter lane end, in Fleet-street. Ibid.

The Rev. Dr. Dannie. Rector of Spurforth, in the County and Diocese of York, died lately, and is succeeded in that living by the Rev. Dr. Hutton. P. Boy.

On Wednesday night last, one of his Majesty's Messengers set out for the Court of France, to Stephen Poyntz, Esq; his Majesty's Ambassador there, on affairs of great Importance. Ibid

Yesterday, between six and seven in the Evening, the Lady of the Right Hon. Robert Lord Walpole, Knight of the Bath, Clerk of the Pells office, Ranger and Keeper of his Majesty's new Park near Richmond in Surry, and eldest Son and Heir to Sir Robert Walpole, Knight of the Garter, &c. was safely delivered of a Son and Heir at his Lordship's house in Grosvenor-street, D. Post.

Yesterday the Persons employed in digging in the Ruins of the Houses that were burnt down in Fleet-street, found the Limbs of two Bodies, but burnt almost to ashes, Daily Journ.

They also took a woman up alive, out of a Vault belonging to the Horse-shoe Ale-house, but she died as soon as she was carried into the air. Ibid.

Saturday, April 4.

On monday last the flying Coaches in Moorfields, by the neglect of the Persons who were employed to manage them, unfortunately broke down; by which accident, a Girl of about 16 years of age, and two small children, were violently bruised. Applebee.

We hear from Inverness in Scotland, that a Lieutenant in Montague's Regiment being drinking with a Gentleman, bid him 50 Guineas for his wife; to which he agreed, and took 10 Guineas in part as earnest: But having since refused to deliver her, and the Lieutenant insisting on his Bargain, this affair is to be tried at the next Assizes for Inverness. Read's Journal

I suppose the Gentleman had never been at London; where he might have been better instructed. For my own part, I should be glad if any body would give me half 50 Guineas for Mrs Quidnunc.

The Earl of Weems hath purchased of William Morrice. Esq; high Baliff of Westminster, all the Goods and Chattels belonging to his father-in-law Col. Chartres, that were seized in great George-street, for 3000 l. Universal Spectator.

Yesterday a Maid-servant was dug out from under the ruins of the fire in Fetter-lane, alive, but soon expired when she came into the air. Courant.

The same day a skull of a man was dug up, who is supposed to be a Porter passing with a load at his back at the juncture of time that the houses fell, his knot and part of a Basket being found near his skull. Ibid.

A few nights past a man coming out of a Boat at the three Crane-stairs, fell over-board, and has not since been seen or heard of. Ibid.

The last Post brought the Proposals made by Sir Charles Hotham to the King of Prussia, and they have been communicated to the Prussian Resident here Monsieur de Reichenbach, and all the differences between the Courts of Berlin and Hanover are accomodated; so that there is great hope that a nearer Union between the two Crowns will soon be established. Post Boy.

Yesterday morning his Grace the Duke of Bedford set out with a great retinue for Woburn-Abbey in Bedfordshire. Ibid.

Cambridge, April 2. On tuesday last the Vice-Chancellor declared the publick Orator's place void, Mr. Castle having resigned. Mr. Williams, fellow of St. John's College, and Mr. Parne, fellow of Trinity, were the two Candidates prick'd by the heads the sameday: and yesterday Mr. Williams was chosen Orator by the body of the University. Ibid.

Yesterday the house of Commons adjourned till monday next. D. Post.

The farther hearing of the merits of the double return for the town of Cardigan, between Richard Lloyd, of Mabus, Esq; and Thomas Power of Nanteos, Esq; is put off for a few days, on account of the indisposition of the last Gentleman. Ibid.

Yesterday morning died in Albemarle-street the Right Hon. Henrietta, Relict of Henry Lord Waldegrave, Comptroller of the houshold to King James II. who died in France, whither he followed the fortunes of that unhappy prince: She was natural Daughter of the said K. James by Mrs. Arabella Churchill, Sister to the late D. of Marlborough, and mother to the Duke of Berwick, afterwards the Wife of Col. Godfrey, who is yet living. She had issue, James, the present Earl of Waldegrave, his Majesty's Ambassador at the Court of Vienna, and another Son named Charles, who died about seven years since. Ibid

On thursday night the Lady of Col. Frances Chartres arrived here from Edinburgh, and the next day took lodgings in Warwick-lane, near Newgate. Ibid.

Yesterday Col. Chartres was so ill with an Asthma and Fever, that it was thought by the Doctors he could not recover. Ibid.

We hear that on thursday last, the play of the fashionable Lady, or Harlequin's Opera, was acted, at the new Theatre in Goodman's fields for the first time, with very great success. Ibid.

This excellent Play was presented to the Society on wednesday last, and referred to the Consideration of Mr. Bavius.

A young Ironmonger of Birmingham was sued for criminal conversation with another man's wife, which was proved upon him, and the Jury having maturely considered the Evidence, gave him only ten pounds damage; whereupon, after the Court was up, a great number of the Defendant's friends that were afraid of a heavier verdict, made great rejoycings, and wore Cockades in their Hats. Ibid.

I am glad the Juries at Birmingham are wiser than these of London. I do not doubt, however, but that Squire Noodle's Dissertation will have so good an Effect that Cockades will be much worn, in a little while at London.

On tuesday last in Greenwich park, great numbers of people from London, and the adjacent parts, diverted themselves (as is common on publick holidays) with running down the hill (formerly called the Giant's steps) that fronts the Palace; but some others, more venturous, would run down the steeper part of the said hill, under the terrace of the royal observatory, one of them, a young woman, broke her neck, another ran against one of the trees with such violence, that she broke her jaw bone, and a third broke her leg. D. Journal.

About 6 o' Clock last night a Boy going near the heels of a vicious horse, which a Gentleman was riding in Smithfield, the horse struck him with such force on the breast, that he was taken up for dead, but a Surgeon being immediately called, let him blood, and, with much difficulty, brought him to himself; after which he was carried home, but 'tis much doubted whether he will recover. Ibid

Yesterday came on a trial at the Sessions of peace at Westminster-hall, upon an Indictment brought against Mr. Jones, keeper of the Lyon and Cat Ale house in Cary-treet, by Mrs. Hyatt, a widow, upwards of 80 years of age, who positively swore, that the Defendant did, in a violent and indecent manner, assault her; and that upon her refusing to yield to his wicked desires, he beat and bruised her so intolerably, that she was obliged to keep her bed, and be attended by a Surgeon for three weeks: But upon a full hearing, it appeared by 3 or 4 credible witnesses, to the intire satisfaction of the Court and Jury, that there was not the least foundation for what the defendant was charged with, so that he was acquitted. Ibid.

An attempt to ravish a woman of 80 seems something extraordinary; Mrs. Quidnunc is so affrighted with it, that she has not dared to stir abroad since the reading of this Article.

The Candidates for the place of Steward for St. Bartholomew's Hospital, in the room of Mr. Briscoe, deceased, are Mr. Lloyd, Mr. Woolfreys, and Mr. Thornbery: The place is reckon'd worth upwards of 200 l. per Ann. Lon. Even.

This morning a man, standing on the rubbish of the Houses which were burnt down on tuesday last in Fleet-street, fell into the Distiller's Cellar, and were so terribly scorched by the heat in the same, that one of them was carried to St. Bartholomew's Hospital, being half dead; and the other very much hurt; but as to a woman's being dug out of the ruins alive, it is all a story, no such thing having happened; or any woman found, as some papers (of but little credit) have mentioned. Ibid.

Mary Baker, who had been committed to the Gatehouse in Westminster last January by his Grace the Duke of Newcastle, for a treasonable libel, call'd, A Letter to Member of Parliament in the North, has been admitted to bail before that Lord Chief Justice Raymond. Ibid.

Yesterday died at his house in Golden square, Sir Edward Knatchbull, of Marsham-hatch in Kent, Bar. It is a family that has been long Resident in that County: One of its chief ornaments was Sir Norton Knatchbull, Knt. a person eminent for his learning and knowledge in antiquity; some of the family have continually served for New Romney, or as Knight of the Shire for the County, &c. Sir Edward Knatchbull, the last Bar. was Member for Rochester in Kent 1 Q Anne, and Knight of the Shire in the last Parliament for that County; but his sentiments being a little altered when the present Parliament were to be elected, the Gentlemen who before brought him in, set up others in his room; so he was elected for a CORNISH BOROUGH, viz. Lestwithiel. He married a Daughter of Col. Wyndham, and Sister to the Lord Chief Justice Wyndham, of Ireland, by whom he had several Children, and is succeeded in dignity and estate by his eldest Son, now Sir Edward Knatchbull, Bar. Ibid.

The same day another of the fire men died in St. Bartholomew's Hospital, so that only 3 remain out of 7 sent thither. Ibid.

A tall young Lady, with darkish brown hair, neither fat nor thin, but well proportioned, her gown and petticoat of fine Norwich crape, or black and white crape, resembling Norwich crape, (very uncommon in late mournings) faced with black silk, plain linnen, and black gloves, was walking with 2 or 3 other Ladies in the Mall at St. James's park, on tuesday the 24th of March last, between 1 and 2 o' Clock, a little before the King went thro' the Park to the Parliament-house: If the said Lady be a single woman, whether she be a woman of fortune or not, if she pleases to acquaint some friend to call on Mrs. Allen, at the Queen Caroline's head, a Warehouse in Tavistock-street, she may be informed of something that, 'tis hoped, will not be disagreeable to any Lady of the best Character, and need not make herself known, unless the subject of this enquiry be to her liking. Ibid.

Monday, April 6.

Yesterday morning Stephen Dawdle, one of the Malefactors condemned last Sessions at the Old Baily, died at Newgate, in one of the Cells. Courant.

We are assured that the Prince Royal of Prussia will be here in six weeks time. Post Boy.

Last night the Right Hon. the Lord Viscount Townshend came to town from his country seat in Norfolk. D. Post.

Col. Chartres is so ill in Newgate of a Fever, that he hath four Blisters on, and is attended by 3 eminent Physicians. Ibid.

On saturday morning one Mary Kemp, of Swan-alley in Black-friers (of between 16 and 17 years of age) was found drowned at Dorset-stairs. She was seen the preceding night till about 11 at the water-side, by several Neighbours of that place; but the occasion of her misfortune is variously reported. D. Journ.

Tuesday, April 7.

Yesterday at the Sessions at Guildhall, one Richard Ellis, alias Rogers, alias John Thomas Hill, was try'd upon an Indictment preferred against him for a misdemeanor, for endeavouring to extort Money from Jeremiah Amet, by threatening to swear Sodomy against him, which was proved, and he was ordered to stand in the Pillory in Gracechurch-street, and to suffer three months Imprisonment. The Sessions of the Peace was then adjourned till this day for hearing appeals, discharging insolvent debtors, &c. Courant.

Yesterday one Thomas Wilcox was committed to Newgate by Sir Richard Hopkins, upon the oath of his own father, for stealing from him 200 yards of Shalloon, valued 10 l. Ibid. and D. Post.

The same day John Hinder stood in the Pillory near St. George's Church in Southwark; at first mounting the same, he refused to put his head into the holes there of, but the Constables insisting on his standing in due form, he was severely treated by the populace; and one person who was for securing a person that threw some dirt at him, had his eye cut so dangerously, that it's fear'd he will lose the fight thereof. Ibid.

Last night the Rt. Hon. the Lord Chancellor came to town from his seat at Oakham; and this day the house of Lords meet for the dispatch of business. ibid.

On monday Last came to town the Rt. Hon. the Lord Wilmington from his seat in Sussex. Post Boy.

Yesterday Sir George Walton, Vice-admiral, accompanied by several Sea captains, set out for the Bath. Ibid.

Yesterday the Grenadiers of St. Giles's Cripplegate, and those of St. Clement's Danes performed an exercise of arms in Tothill-fields, near Bridewell, Westminster; the former personating the Spaniards, defended the Alms-houses there, which represented the fortress of Gibraltar, but the latter personating the English, attack'd the place in so brisk a manner with their fire-arms, that the former were put to an inglorious flight, and the others returned in triumph to their respective habitations. The loss, we hear was inconsiderable on both sides. Ibid.

The Daily Post calls it a fine Entertainment, and the Daily Journal an handsome Exercise.

I suppose the Inhabitants of the Alms-houses were not permitted to fight; which occasioned their fortress to be stormed.

Yesterday in Tothill fields, a private centinel of the 2d Regiment of guards standing near one of the cannons planted there, which was discharged by a squib's accidentally falling upon the Touch-hole, had the misfortune to have one of his legs shattered in a dangerous manner. Ibid.

The Daily Courant says one of the soldiers belonging to the Guards, who was hired as a Pioneer, had his leg splintred to pieces by one of the chambers bursting. The Daily Post has it, an unhappy accident happened, occasioned by a boy throwing a serpent, which fell on one of the little cannons, that one party had planted to fire upon the other; a Pioneer seeing it, ran to take it away, and having one leg at the mouth of the gun, the Priming took fire, and it went off, and shatter'd his leg so much that 'tis thought it must be cut off: The Daily Journal adds, that a woman lost her eye by the throwing of squib.

The Anatomical Theatre at Surgeon's hall, built by Inigo Jones about an hundred years ago, and esteemed the most commodious structure in Europe for the purpose, being out of repair, after several estimates given in by builders, who from the peculiarity of the structure very much differ'd about the manner and expence of repairing it, the Earl of Burlington was last week requested to survey it, who not only directed the only proper way of repairing it, and that at a much less expence than by any of the other estimates, but also out of his regard to that great English Architect, and to the generous encouragement he is always ready to afford to maintain the memory and productions of the Artists in every profession, ordered it to be forthwith repaired by one of his own builders at his own expence. Daily Post.

A new chappel is to be built at the expence of Sir Richard Grosvenor, Bar, upon his own ground near Grosvenor-square, for the conveniency of the inhabitants of those new buildings, and this day Sir Richard will lay the first stone of the foundation of the said chappel. D. Journal.

Whitehall, April 7. His Majesty has been pleased to order his Letters Mandatory to be issued to the Sub-Dean, or in his absence, to the President and Chapter of the Cathedral Church of Lincoln, for electing the Reverend Dr. Edward Willes to be Dean of the said Church, in the Room of Dr Edward Gee, deceased. Gazette.

His Majesty has been pleased to appoint Benjamin Keene Esq; now his Majesty's Minister Plenipotentiary, at the Court of Spain, Arthur Start Esq; one of the Representatives in Parliament for Plymouth, and John Goddard Esq; a Representative for Tregony, two very eminent Merchants, to be his Majesty's Commissaries, to treat with those of his Catholick Majesty, concerning such matters, as, by the Treaty of Seville, are referred to the Examination, Discussion, and Decision of Commissaries to be appointed for that purpose by his Majesty and the King of Spain. Even. Post.

On Sunday Morning Stephen Dawdle, one of the Malefactors condemn'd Last Sessions at the Old Bailey, died at Newgate in one of the Cells. ibid.

We hear that Orders are actually gone to Windsor for the Royal Apartments to be fitted up with all convenient Speed for the Reception of the King of Prussia, and his Son the Prince Royal, who design to come over hither in the beginning of June, and that the whole Court will remove to that Palace the latter end of May next. Lond. Even.

Wednesday, April 1.

On Monday night last Anne Bond, the young woman who prosecuted Col. Chartres for a Rape, met several Persons of Distinction and eminent Lawyers at the Horn Tavern in the New Palace Yard, Westminster. D. Post.

The Countess of Weems is on the Road from Edinburgh for this City. ibid.

Yesterday came on the Choice of Governours of the Bank of England, for the year ensuing, when Samuel Holden Esq; Governour and Sir Edward Bellamy Knight, and Alderman Deputy Governour were re-elected. Daily Journal.

Dublin, March 31. Last tuesday the Right Hon. William Conolly, Esq; one of his Majesty's most Hon. Privy Council, and Member of Parliament for the Borough of Bully Shannon in this Kingdom, embarked on board the Carteret Packet-boat for Hollyhead. Courant.

Last night was interr'd in St. Andrew's church the corpse of the Rt. Hon. the Lady Viscountess Molesworth, who died on tuesday Last. Ibid.

On Tuesday the 12th Instant, a Gang of Robbers enter'd into the house of Mr. Stephen McGachin near Portarlington in Queen's County, between the hours of 9 and 10; and after having barbarously abused and wounded both him and his wife, rifled the house. Ibid.

Dublin, March 28. On Thursday night Last one Eccles an idle fellow, was apprehended and committed to New-gate for Sacrilege, having robbed St. George's Church of the books and some ornaments belonging thereto. D. Journal.

* * *

FOREIGN NEWS.

Thursday, April 2.

Vienna, March 25. N.S. The Fortress of Luxemburg is to be provided with ammunition and provisions for 2 years, that being the most likely place to be attack'd in case of a Rupture. We hear the family of Schonborn offer to raise 2 new Regiments of horse at their own charge, upon condition that the Colonels of them be always of the name of Schonborn. We have advice from Swisserland, that 4000 men have lately been raised there for the Crown of Spain; but that they cannot break for that Kingdom, because the King of Sardinia refuses to grant them passage thro' his territories. Cour.

The Troops of the King's houshold are all under arms to day, and this morning by six o' Clock the French and Swiss guard had taken all the avenues to the Parliament: An effectual way this, to put an end to the disputes about the constitution Unigenitus! Post Boy.

Warsaw, March 16. The bells in all the Churches in this City have been toll'd for some days past, on occasion of the death of Pope Benet XII. whose Nuncio has received advice of it by an extraordinary Courier. On saturday the Primate of the Kingdom went to Rome, to consecrate the new church of the Jesuits, after which that Prelate went again to Lewitz. Yesterday the Staroft Willouski pass'd thro' this place, going to his estates in the upper Poland. It is written from Freyberg, that they had seen in the sky a Phænomenon, representing at first two men on Horseback, advancing sword in hand one against the other, and being joined, there appeared in their place a flaming wheat-sheaf, which afterwards took the figure of a cross. D. Post.

Vienna, March 25. A report runs here, that the allies of the treaty of Seville have offered the Emperor, in case of his acceding to the said treaty, to guarrantee all his dominions in Italy, also that the Crown of Spain promises to pay him the Subsidies which are in arrear, pursuant to the Vienna treaty. The Fortress of Luxenburgh is to be stored with provisions and ammunition for two years, because, in case of a Rupture, that place seems to be most exposed. We learn, that the 2 new Regiments of horse of Shonbourn, are to be commanded by Colonels of that family only. It is advised from Swisserland, that the Court of Spain had caused to be raised 4000 Swissers for its service, but those Troops were not to march till further orders from Spain, be cause the King of Sardinia had refused to permit them to pass thro' Savoy. D. Journ.

Paris, April 3. They write from Barcelona, that it is not possible to describe the preparations that are making there for the embarkation of the Spanish Troops for Italy. The number that is to serve in this expedition, is not yet fixed; but they are amassing vast quantities of ammunition and provision enough to supply a great army of men, and such an army is drawing towards that city from all parts of Spain. They have orders to have every thing ready by the latter end of April. Ev. Post

This day we had one Mail from France.

Paris, April 8. The King is not gone into mourning for the death of the Czar, as it is reported he would the 1st of this Month; but his Majesty has put it off till after his arrival at Fontainbleau, where he will put on mourning, both for the Electress Dowager of Bavaria, and the Czar likewise at the same time. Ibid.

Friday, April 3.

We are assured our Great Duke offers, that in case the King of Spain will content to send Don Carlos into his dominions without any Troops, he will make him Heir to all his Dominions. The Emperor's troops continue marching for Italy: The number is reported to be 4000 men. The French Cardinals have passed thro' Turin, in their way to Rome where nothing material has yet been done; nor is it believed that a new Pope will be elected before the foreign Cardinals arrive. The British Resident at Florence has been to visit the Earl of Kinnoul, who will depart for Constantinople in a few days. The Marquess Capponi is expected daily from Florence, to take on him the Government of this City, in the room of the Baron del Nero. A Dutch man of war is now on departure. Daily Journal.

Alicant, March 22. N.S. Since my last the Vice King has been here, and given orders for the getting ready in 2 months 1066 Buts, 400 Hogsheads, and 400 small Casks; and the Boat-men have orders to provide all things for shipping off stores, &c. from whence we apprehend the expedition to Italy will go forward. Ibid.

Saturday, April 4.

Milan, March 18. N.S. They write from Turin, that the King of Sardinia's illness was occasioned only by the Gravel; and that since his Majesty voided a great stone, he was pretty well recovered. Post Boy

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from Flanders.

Peterbugh, March 11. The principal Members of all the Colleges, and the three heads of the Academy of Sciences, are by the Czarina's express order, set out from hence for Moscow. It is to be presumed, that after the Ceremony of her Majesty's Coronation, great alterations will be made in all the tribunals, and till then all business here is at a stand. Three days ago 2 large chests of Papers sealed up, and belonging to General Jagozinski, were sent from hence for Moscow. We hear by our last letters from that City, that they are preparing with the utmost diligence, all things necessary for the Coronation of the Czarina, and that in order to render that Ceremony the more solemn, the chief Bishops and Prelates of the Russian Monarchy have been sent for thither. D. Post.

This day arrived a Mail from Holland.

Vienna, March 19. Some advices from Spain import, that his Catholick Majesty has resolved to embark 30,000 men to support the introduction of the Spanish troops into the Dutchies of Tuscany and Parma. Even. Post.

The Letters from Hungary confirm the motions of the Turks on the Frontiers, but their designs could not be dived into. ibid.

Hague, April 9. On the 6th a Courier dispatched from Berlin for London passed thro' this place with advice, that the differences between the Courts of Hanover and Prussia, are as good as reconciled, and it is written from Berlin, of the 4th of this Month, that Sir Cha. Hotham arrived there on the 2d in the Evening, and on the 4th had audience of the King of Prussia, at Charlottenberg. Ibid.

Monday, April 6.

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from France.

Moscow, March 16. N.S. The Duke de Liria, Ambassador of Spain, is preparing to return home some time in May next. Yesterday Count Wratislau, the Emperor's Ambassador, had a private audience of the Czarina, wherein she declared to him, that she approved of all the Resolutions taken before and since her accession to the Throne, concerning the march of the 30,000 men designed for the service of the Emperor his Master; and his excellency has this day sent an express to carry that news to Vienna. Courant.

Paris, April 12. In the night between the 3d and 4th Instant, a Person well dressed was kill'd in the Place Royale. ibid.

Our Last Letters from Rome advise, that the Court of Spain had put the negative upon Cardinal Imperials; that the French Cardinals were arrived there; that the Cardinal de Rohan alighted at the Palace formerly the Ambassador of Portugal's; and that he went into the Conclave the day after his arrival; as did also Cardinal Coscia, being guarded from Cisterna, by a detachment of Soldiers, at his own instance, to prevent the Mob's insulting him a second time. ibid.

The Post Boy reads the Court of Spain had forbid the Election of Cardinal Imperiali, the Daily Post, had given the Exclusion to the Papacy of Cardinal Imperiali, and the Daily Journal has it, had procured the exclusion of Cardinal Imperiali from the Papal Dignity.

Tuesday, April 7.

Hague, March 9. N.S. We are assured, that the double marriage, formerly mentioned, between the prince of Wales and the Princess royal of Prussia, and between the Prince Royal of Prussia and the Princess Royal of England, is as good as concluded. Count Sinzendorf, Envoy extraordinary of the Emperor, having received an express from his Court, has had another conference with their high-mightinesses deputies. Courant.

Extract of a letter from Naples, March 24. N.S.

Here has been, and still remains in this city, an illness so universal, that scarce any one is free, on which account, on Monday last the Cardinal Archbishop ordered the statue of St. Januarius to be exposed, and publick prayers and intercessions were made to that Saint, to implore his assistance, which it is pretended had the desired effect; for the same evening the famous mountain Vesuvius sent forth eruptions: It began about two hours before dark, and the smoke was so great, that it seemed to darken the adjacent country, but it soon flamed out after a most violent manner, and flung out a sulphurous matter, which ran continually from the top of the mountain to the bottom all on a lighted fire, so that the whole mountain seemed all on fire, and cast out vast quantities of stones, of an incredible size: The night was very dark, which made the sight more amazing. It continued on Tuesday and Wednesday, on which last evening I had the curiosity to go to the foot of the mountain, which appear'd so terrible, that I want words to express, (and lighted a torch at it) and what increas'd my surprize, was the horrible noise. The people here believe, that St. Janarius ordered the mountain to burn, to purify the air: But it is certain the sickness is not yet abated. D. Journal.

* * *

The General Shipping LIST.

Ships arriv'd at and sail'd from Great Britain, from March 31, to April 8.

Ships Captains From For

March 28. Dartmouth.

Pr. Frederick Winchelsea France

Pool.

30 Britannia Draper Carolina

Southampton.

Ap. 2. Katherine Warwick Alicant Ostend

Mar. 31 Dover.

Charles Quearn ditto

Isaac and Eliz. Watson Sunderland Sail'd to the

Westward

Ap. 2.

Goodwill Smith ditto

Will. and Mary Bird ditto

Downs bound home.

Cupid Pugh Faro Yarmouth

Gravesend, bound home.

Venture Downing Figuera

Tho, and Crispin Palmer Rotterdam

Jane Hodgson ditto

Hopewell Huggins ditto

Betty Conway ditto

Young John Fredericks Amsterdam

Florence Coleman Leghorn

Carteret Durell Gibraltar

Ap. 1. Bet. & Ann Allason Oporto

Hooker & Mary Wilson Rotterdam

Pr. Frederick Lillywhite La vera Cruz

Amel. Margar. Cassan Bremen

Dolphin Bromel Amsterdam

William Thompson Guernsey

2. Ann Katherine Hilgerlo Amsterdam

Lady Ann Claessen ditto

3. Young Lucas Fiekes ditto

John Lawrence Jersey

Willing Mind Wilkinson Canaries

Jane Maccanis Hav. de Grace

Katherine Wynn ditto

St. Clement Moentack Ostend

Charles Simpson Alicant

Hester Reed ditto

5. Marquiss Merry Gallipoly

Hadly Elton Smirna

Patio Grosvenor Lisbon

Francis De Rudder Ostend

Cadogan Lemon Barcelona

Elizabeth Gifford Jersey

Sam. and Clark Clark Bologn

Gravesend, bound out.

Mar. 30. Mary Leatherhead ——— N. England

Cornel. & Mary Speake ——— Petersburgh

31. York Pearson ——— Dantzic

Will. & Joseph Palleason ——— Africa

Hope Jenner ——— Holland

Lady Mary Johnson ——— ditto

Ap. 1. Starr Fredericks ——— ditto

Samaritan Parson ——— ditto

Unity Cansteens ——— Hambro

Mary and Eliz. Peterson ——— ditto

2. George Roberts ——— Lisbon

Pr. Frederick Peck ——— ditto

Judith Pearce ——— Africa

John's Goodwill Tibb ——— Dantsick

4 Anne Keeble ——— Petersbrug

Northforeland Granger ——— ditto

Thanet Granger ——— ditto

Happy Return Sturt ——— ditto

John and Petr Richard ——— Guernsey

5 Catherine Rowlandson ——— Holland

Hannah & Zeb. Cranwell ——— ditto

D. of Charos Pepper ——— France

Truelove Omer ——— S. Carolina

Cadiz Frigate Jackson ——— Ostend

Downs bound out.

3 Genoa Gally Hamburgh Gen. & Leg.

Sailed

Dartmouth.

For From

Mar. 31. Warren Philips London Jamaica

Ap. 1. Elizabeth Cooper Newfoundla.

Portsmouth.

Mar. 31. Kezia Paxon Gibraltar

Southampton.

Ap. 2. Batch. End Bonamay Guernsey

Hope Le Cross Jersey

Dover

Barker Bacon N. England came in Mar. 31

Downs bound out.

Mar. 31 Jo. & Ann Lilly Lyn Oporto

Ap. 1 Concord Innis Gibraltar ———

Mary Dunn ditto ———

S. John Baptist Harvey Cadiz ———

Little Grizle Jefferys Canso ———

Regard Turner Virginia ———

Hanover Warren Jamaica ———

Anne Macket ditto ———

Will. & Joseph Pollexsin Guiney ———

Lilly Townshend Lisbon ———

Mary Leatherhead Boston ———

4 Joseph Evans Hamburgh S. Lucar

5 Sea Nymph Foster Genoa ———

St. George Roberts Lisbon ———

Charming Jenn. Renny Gibraltar

5 Lyon Lyon Bristol

Lisbon Packet Hancock Lisbon

The Course of the Exchange.

Amsterdam 34 4 a 5

Ditto at Sight 34 1

Rotterdam 34 5

Antwerp 35

Hamburgh 33 1

Paris at Sight 32 1 half

Bourdeaux at sight 32 1 4th

Cadiz 42 5 8ths a 1 half

Madrid 43 a 2 7 8ths

Bilboa 42 3 4ths

Leghorn 51 5 8ths

Genoa 54 3 4ths

Venice 49

Lisbon 5 s. 6 d. 1/2

Porto 5 s. 5 d. 1/4

Dublin 12 1 4th

Prices of Goods at Bear Key on Tuesday.

per Quarter

Wheat 20 to 27

Rye 13 to 14 6

Barley 12 to 14

Oats 9 to 14

Horse Beans 20 to 23

Hog Peas 17 to 20

Boiling Peas 23 to 25

Pale Malt 17 to 21

Brown Malt 18 to 21

Tares 20 to 26

Coals 23 s. to 23 s. 6 d. per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 20 s. to 27 s. per Hundred.

Hope 1729 30 s. to 55 s. per Hundred.

Rape Seed 14 l. to 15 l. per Last.

On Tuesday Stocks were

South-Sea 103. Annuities 107 3 8ths, for the opening. Bank 145 for ditto. Bank Circulation 6 l. 15 s. Premium. India 188 for the opening. Three per Cent. Annuity 95 1 qr. African 44. Royal Exchange Assurance 92. London Assurance 12 1 half. York Buildings 17 3 8ths. English Copper 3 l. 13 s. Welch ditto 1 l. 13 s. South Sea Bonds 4 l. 1 s. Premium. India Bonds 5 l. ditto.

* * *

ADVERTISEMENTS.

This Day is published,

Printed on a superfine Paper, in two Volumes in Quarto,

SOME Observations made in travelling through France, Italy, &c. in the Years 1720, 1721 and 1722: Containing a large and particular Account of the most remarkable Curiosities in those Countries, as well such as relate to their Manners, Customs, religious Orders, Ceremonies, &c. Likewise of their Architecture, Paintings, Sculpture, and other Antiquities, which are esteemed most worthy of the Observation of an English Traveller. With some short Remarks on the Air, Soil, Productions, Trade, Manufactures of several Places, occasionally interspersed. By Edward Wright, Esq; illustrated with 40 curious Drawings, design'd upon the Spot by the Author, and engrav'd on Copper by the best Hands.

Printed for Messieurs Ward and Wicksteed in the Inner Temple Lane.

* * *

This Day is published,

THE Merchant. A Naval Lyrick, on Trade, Navigation, and Peace.———Designed to give a new, but just Idea of the Pindaric Ode, and to shew the Scripture-style of the Prophets highly proper for it.

Printed for Lawton Gilliver at Homer's Head against St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet-street.

Where may be had,

Two Epistles to Mr. Pope, concerning the Authors of the Age, by the Author of the universal Passion. Also

A new Edition of the Art of Politicks.

Likewise a new Edition of the Dunciad Variorum, with some additional Notes and Epigrams.

* * *

This Day is published,

THE Nurse's Guide; or, a right Method of bringing up young Children. To which is added, An Essay on preserving Health and Long Life with a Treatise on the Gout.

By an eminent Physician.

Printed for John Brotherton at the Bible in Cornhill, and Lawton Gilliver at Homer's Head in Fleet-street.

Where may be had,

A General System of Hydrostaticks and Hydraulicks, philosophical and practical. An Enquiry into the Original and Rise of Springs: Draughts and Descriptions of the best Engines for distributing Water for the supply of Country Seats, Cities, &c. illustrated and explained by 60 copper Cuts. Done by the best Hands. In 2 Vols in 4to. By Mr. Switzer.

* * *

This Day is Publish'd,

TTHE LIFE of the Right Rev. Dr. White Kennett, late Lord Bishop of Peterborough, with several original Letters of the late Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr. Tennison; the late Earl of Sunderland; Bishop Kennett, &c. and some curious original Papers and Records, never before published. And also

The Foreigner's Guide: Or, a necessary and Instructive Companion, both for the Foreigner and Native, in their Tour through the Cities of London and Westminster. Giving,

1st. A general Description of these two Cities, with an Account of their respective Government.

2dly. A Description of the Royal Palaces, Noblemens Houses, publick Buildings, Churches, Streets, Squares, and the most remarkable Places in and near the famous Metropolis: With a Account of the Inns of Court, Royal Society, publick Walks, Diversions, remarkable Days, Court Days, Post Days. And,

3dly. A Description of the several villages in the Neighbourhood; as Chelsea, Kensington, Richmond, Greenwich, Woolwich, Hampstead; and also others more remote, viz. Hampton-Court, Windsor, Oxford, Cambridge, Blenheim, New Market Horse Races, Epsom, Tunbridge, Bath. And,

4thly. An Account of the Rates of Coaches, Watermen; and also the Rates of Post Horses; with the Roads to Dover and Harwich.

Very useful and entertaining both to Foreigner and Native, and done into English and French.

Where may be had,

LOVE LETTERS on all Occasions, lately passed between Persons of Distinction. Collated by Mrs. Eliza. Haywood,

Pleasure with Sorrow, Peace with War allay'd,

Liberty fetter'd, Hope by Fear dismay'd;

Imbitter'd Honey, Earnest mix'd with Play,

Are, Love! the Emblems of thy sov'reign Sway,

Printed for, and sold by Francis Cogan, at the Middle-Temple Gate in Fleet-street.

* * *

LONDON: Printed and Sold by J. Roberts in Warwick-Lane, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in; and at the Pamphlet-Shops of London and Westminster, and also at the Pegasus (vulgarly called the Flying-horse in Grub-street. [Price Two Pence.]

