The Grub-street Journal — April 23rd, 1730

Exported from Wikisource on May 12, 2026

Numb. 16.

The Grub-street Journal.

* * *

Thursday, APRIL 23. 1730.

* * *

Remarks on the Fashionable Lady, or Harlequin's Opera.

Oons, Mr. Drama, what d'ye mean by such stupid stuff as this? Let me be hang'd if I have not been entertain'd a thousand times better, by the Humours of Rustigo, and his man Terrible, at Southwark Fair. Ralph.

THE Farce now before me seems to have been written in imitation of the Rehearsal, and design'd to ridicule the present fashionable Entertainments. The gentle manner in which our Poet handles them, is what gives me a singular pleasure. The Duke of Buckingham had hardly a single line, which was not pointed against a particular part of some play then in vogue. But our Author is not so severe, he contents himself with bantering them in the lump, and thinks it will be sufficient to turn the works of other men to ridicule; if he himself writes a very silly thing after the same manner. I entirely agree with him in this opinion; and if he will but oblige the town with a Tragedy and a Comedy of his own composing: I do not at all question, but that both those species of Poetry will be equally turn'd to ridicule.

In my account of this play, I shall speak first of the Similies; these being greatly in our Author's favour, who has hardly writ a sentence without one or more in it. I thought, indeed, at first that he designed to banter a Crowd of Similies, but I was soon undeceiv'd by finding, that the Gentlemen at the Rehearsal abound with them as much as the Opera it self. Dr. Sprat, in his History of the Royal Society, among the various professions, to which he supposes Philosophy would be useful, enumerates Poetry, and pleases himself with the expectation of seeing a variety of apt allusions to the several parts of Nature. M. Bayle was of a different opinion, he thought it would be hard to oblige a Lady to go thro' a Course of Philosophy, in order to understand a Copy of Verses or a Play. Mr. Ralph seems to be of Dr. Sprat's mind, and makes his Beau (Mr. Smooth) tell his fashionable Lady (Mrs. Foible) Upon my soul, Madam, we are perfectly the Loadstone and the Needle; I obey all your motions implicitly. And Mr. Merit says to Mrs. Sprightly, Upon my life, at this rate I shall expect to be shown up and down the Country as an Exotick; that, like the Aloe in Blossom, can hardly be seen above once in a Man's life. Nay, what Dr. Sprat little expected, the Royal Society it self has furnished a subject for wit; for Mr. Trifle says to Mr. Whim, Verily you look as mortified as a discarded Member of the Royal Society. But how learned soever our Poet may be in Natural History, he will hardly merit a place in the Society of Antiquaries. He seems not to have known that the Graces were painted naked, when he made Mrs. Sprightly, the greatest Wit in the whole Opera, say, You know my Cousin Foible is beautiful as Venus, and would dress like one of the Graces. I could wish that some of our Members would compose an Index of the Similies in this Farce; which would be a thing of much use to future Dramatick Writers. I shall mention a few which occur to me, as I turn over the Leaves; P. 14. Her Brain is as empty as a Harpsichord, and her Heart as various as its Musick; her conversation is trifling as an Opera, and her Passions a Medley like an Entertainment, P. 15. You are like a costive Poet, who thinks he has stumbled on a new thought when he has only alter'd the Phrase of an old one. This is put into the mouth of a fine Lady; who must needs have strain'd very hard for such a costive Simile, P. 20. I'll have you burnt in Effigy like the Devil and his Holiness, on the fifth of November.

The 13th Scene of the 1st Act is inimitably fine, both with regard to the Machinery and Language, that I shall take leave to relate it in a particular manner as a specimen of the whole Play. The Scene is the dumb Conjurer's house. It consists chiefly of a conversation about punch, between Voice (Harlequin's man) and some Sailors.

'4 Sailor. Shew me but the Punch, and i'gad I'll drink, tho' the Devil were to pledge me.

'Voice. Cra' mercy, old Rock! I love a Boy of Courage, and so we'll begin the round. Do'st see that Globe yonder?

'4 Sail. Well, and what then? what's that to a bowl of Punch?

'Voice. Why, 'tis over that Globe I study Geography.

'2 Sail. Oons, don't tell us of Jeffery, give us the Punch.

'Omnes. The Punch! the Punch!

'Voice. Ay, ay! the Punch, the Punch!

'You've heard, no doubt, how all the Globe

 Was soak'd of old with Noah's flood.

See here's a Globe that holds a Sea!

 A Sea of Liquor twice as good!

    Tol dol de rol.

'Had Noah's been a Flood like this,

 And Anak's sons such souls as I,

They'd drunk the Deluge as it rose,

 And left the Ark, like Noah, dry.

    Tol dol de rol.

This, indeed, is very fine; but Mr. Voice happens to be a little out, in his Chronology; for Anak was not born till a great while after the Deluge. But to return;

'He takes off one half of the Globe, and brings the other full of Punch, to the front of the Stage; they sit on the ground to drink.

'Voice. This, my Buffs, is your true Aqua Vitæ, and your true Lignum Vitæ; which is, being interpreted, Unum Necessarium, Meat, Drink, and Cloaths, Punch! all that the heart of man can desire!

'4 Sail. I'gad a very pretty Fancy! I swear, a World of Punch! on my life we'll drink a World of Punch.

'Voice. Ay, ay, my Boys! we'll be the Alexanders that shall conquer this world; tho' we cry for more, as he did, when we've done.

'1 Sail. Did Alexander cry for more Punch, then? I'gad I think he was in the right.———I should have done the same my self.

'3 Sail. Oons! who talks of crying over an Ocean of Punch? Let the world spin, I say, and a fig for the Spaniards. I say, let the world go round.'

What a world of wit is here! I would not but have read this Scene for the whole world. It has made my head go round almost as fast as the world it self.

The Language is every where just and elegant; as will appear by the few following Instances, Act 1. Sc. 9. Mrs. Sprightly tells Mr. Merit, I'm afraid you'll die of the English Disease at last, you'll certainly hang your self, and be brought in Lunatick by the Coroner's Inquest; which I take to be a fine complement on the English Nation. And Mr. Merit answers with great politeness, You are as keen as the North wind, in a March morning and almost as loud; while I, like a duck'd Scold, have scarce Breach or Courage to make you an answer. Sc. 17. The delicate Mr. Modely says, I feel a sort of an Antipathy to an old English tune, that shocks me worse than the setting of a saw, or a Concert of Midnight Cats in a Gutter. Act 3. Sc. 10. Prattle says to Mrs. Sprightly, I vow, and protest, Mem, were I married to Mr. Whim, I should dream of nothing but wet weather every night, and, at nine months end, be brought to bed of a Cloud.

As for the Songs, I shall content my self with giving Mrs. Fable's opinion (p. 71.) which is applicable to most of them, they are worse than a Psalm at an Execution, or an Owl at Midnight.

The Plot seems to be to bring in fine things; which Mr. Bayes declared was all that a Plot was good for. Thus Mr. Ballad gets drunk, that he may take Death out to dance; and Death is introduc'd for no other reason, but to give him an opportunity to do it. O Death (says Mr. Ballad) thou long liv'd Mortal, give me thy hand, and let's lead up a Dance. Oons, we'll have a Death's dance more to the Life than Holben's

To conclude, the whole Play is charming; and very well deserves all the Encouragement, the Town can give it.

Bavius.

To Mr. Bavius.

SIR,

THE Author of The Fashionable Lady, &c. having told his Patron, that it was an Essay to entertain Politeness and good Sense; I have sent you a short specimen of polite and sensible language collected from that Opera, which I hope you will think proper to insert in your next Journal.

'Mr. Ballad Blood! p. 1, 65. S'death! p. 61, 65. Gad. Before George 75, 87. I'gad! p. 2, 66. Oons! p. 2, 16, 18. Before George. p. 35, 57, 59, 61, 80, 87, 89. Cod so. p. 80. By the Lord Harry. p. 2, 5, 65, 80. p 75, 80. Pox. p. 80. What a Devil! p. 43. 59. A Devil knows what. p. 61. Go to the Devil! p. 43, 59. A Devil knows what. p. 61. Go to the Devil. p. 2. Confound your Amphion, p. 2. Confound the plot. p. 80. Confound this italian. p. 2. Confound these damn'd Critics, they are as unmannerly as the Devil. p. 89. Cry mercy, here's the Devil too.———My service to you, you black Whore's bird, with all my heart. p. 87.

'Mr. Modely Dem it. p. 2. Devil take your Criticisms. p. 57. Devil take him. p. 89.

'Mr. Smooth. Gas! p. 40. Dem it. p. 10, 18, 40, 41, 90, 91. What a pox! p. 18. Pox take 'em, p. 19, 20.

'Capt. Hackum. S'Death! p. 18, 88. Blood! p. 27, 90, 91. Blood and thunder! p. 9. 57, 88. What the Devil! p. 55, 88. Oons! p. 57. 58. By the Devil, p. 6, 55. Pox of your entertainment. p. 57. Confound the Wizard. p. 88. You Whoreson lubberly Dogs, what a Devil do you here? What, must you have your fortunes told too, with a pox?———Fine fortunes, and be damn'd to you, p. 55.

'Mr. Whim. S'Death! p. 47. 49. Oons. p. 26, 49, 78, 79. Marry with a pox. p. 50. What a plague! p. 50. What a pox! p. 25, 79. What the Devil! p. 24. What a Devil! p. 26, 50, 78.

'Mr. Trifle. S'bud! p. 75. S'death! P.75.

'Voice. Pox! Plague on't. p. 20.

'Mrs. Foible. Oh Ged! p. 21. Devil take 'em! p.29. Dem your Genius. p. 92.

'Mrs Sprightly. Ged! p. 68, 69, 72. O Lud! O Lud! p. 31. Devil take her. p. 34.

Your humble servent, J. T.

To Mr. Bavius, Secretary to the Grub-street Society.

SIR,

ALONG with your Paper of this day, my Hawker brought me (the printed Copy of) the Lists of our Profession, as delivered into the house of Commons. Throughout the whole I can find but one Name with the Addition of Esq; and that is in the King's-Bench List: and therefore I intend to search for his Name on the Roll of Attorneys of that Court, for I can never believe it can be so enter'd there; but if it should, I shall hope to find it at the head of the Roll in Capitals, and not as in the printed Copy, crowded in at the fag end, without any other, than an alphabetical Distinction: nay, I shall expect to find along with the Addition of Esq; that he is entered with the Style and Title of Capitalis Attorn. de Banco coram Nob. There are Instances of Attornies being obliged to quit Trades they carried on, or else being put out of the Roll of Attorneys: and, I hope, my Brethren of that Court will move, that he may either wave his privilege of Esq; or else be put out of the Roll of Attorneys, as a Member of your Society.

Thursday 9. Apr. 1730.

Your constant Reader,

Gen' un Attorn' de Com. Banco.

We are obliged to the same Gentleman for the Copy of the two following Epitaphs; one being on an Attorney, buried in the Church at Beccles in Suffolk, the other on a Bailiff,

HIC jacet Corpus Thomæ Wrongey generosi, Unius Attornatorum Curiæ Domini Regis de Banco apud Westm.

Juxta libertates & privilegia ejusdem Curiæ, tertio die Aprilis, privilegio suo non obstante, morte arrestatur, hic in sepulchri prisona detinetur. Nec aliquâ Legis subtilitae ab eadem ante generalem Goalæ Deliberationem Liberaudum; cùm Christus ad totum terrarum orbem judicandum venerit.

HERE lies John Coom,

A Bailiff of the Boom;

Who one day dy'd:

And the Devil he cry'd,

Come, John Come

* * *

LONDON.

Thursday, April 16.

Yesterday being the first day of Term, several persons appeared on their Recognizances, and were continued. Courant.

The same day being the Anniversary of Prince William's birth, their Majesties, &c. received the usual complements on that occasion. Ibid. He then entered into his 10th year. D. Post.

The same day died at Greenwich Mr. Bird, master Cook to the royal hospital there. Ibid.

Mr Overall received yesterday, for the Fire-mens widows, from Mrs. Long 5 guineas, from another Lady 2; from an unknown hand by a footman, to be equally divided 2; from a Gentleman 2, in a penny-post letter; from Mr. G. C. 5s; from Mr R. L. half a guinea. Ibid.

A French ship from Pondecherry in the East Indies hath brought letters from Fort St. George, dated Sept. 15, with advice, that all the English India Ships of that year were safely arrived; the Greenwich, which was the first, May 20, and the Grantham, which was the last, Aug 6: the latter, after a long and hazardous voyage, having been on the Maldive Rocks, but was then gone to Bengal. The Duke of York, Capt. Summers, got a country voyage to Judda. The Heathcote, Capt. Tolson, having lost her passage wintered at Bengall, and is expected home next month. D. Post.

This French Ship arrived at Port Louis. 2 Ships belonging to the Ostend Company were arrived at Bengall from Cadiz, under Polish Colours. D. Journal

The Rev. Dr. Penny, one of the Prebendaries of Norwich, and Rector of Huckling, near Nottingham, is presented to the Rectory of Beddington in Surrey; in the room of Dr. Herbert. And the Rev. Mr. Ward, sen. Fellow of Queen's Coll. Camb. succeeds Dr. Penny in Hickling, being in the gift of that College, and worth near 300 l. per annum. D. Post.

The Cause between Bertie Hopkins, Esq; and his Wife against Mr. Honeywood, which has been depending between 19 and 20 years, was on monday last determined by the House of Lords, That Mr. Honeywood should deposite 4556l. 5s. into the hands of one of the Masters in Chancery, and that the Accounts should be stated by 6 Merchants Referrees. Even. Post.

On tuesday the great Cause was heard between Alured Pinke, Est; and Eliz. Lady Abergavenny, his wife, Appellants, and Anne Lady Dowager Abergavenny Respondent. when orders of the Court of Chancery, made in favour of the Respondent, were affirmed, and the Appeal dismissed with 100l. Costs. The Even. St James's and London Even. Posts.

Serjeant Sheppard died last Friday of the Spotted Fever, at his seat near Honiton in Devonshire. And the Lord Chief Baron Pengelly died on sunday morning at Blanford. 'Tis reported that these Gentlemen and their servants were taken ill in the Court at Exeter Assizes, or very soon after, occasioned by the noisome stench of the Prisoners, who were then ill of the Goal distemper. D. Journal.

Sir James Sheppard Knt. one of the King's Serjeants, and member for Honiton in Devonshire. Even. Posts.

On sunday morning sat died, after a very short illness, Charles Bartie, Esq; at Uffington, near Stamford in Lincolnshire, Member in several Parliaments for the said Borough, and has left a considerable estate to his eldest son Charles, late of Queen's College, Oxon. The Even. St. James's and Whitehall Even.

Last Week died at his seat of Norton-Conyers in Yorkshire, Sir Billingham Graham, Bar. and dying a Batchelor, is succeeded in dignity and estate by his next Brother (now) Sir Reginald Graham, Bar. a Cornet in Lord Carpenter's Dragoons. Ibid.

The Rev. Mr. Villa, who has been Præceptor Several years to the Prince Royal of Prussia, is presented to the living of St. John the Evangelist, Westminster. 4 Evening Posts.

On April 10. Mr. Justice Price, Mr. Justice Probyn, and Mr. Baron Thomson, Recorder of the City of London, who sat upon the Trial of the Criminals at the last Sessions at the Old Baily, attended his Majesty in Council; (at which were present his Royal Highness the Prince, the L. Privy Seal, L. Steward, L. Chamberlain, D. of Boston, D. of Rutland, D. of Argyle, D. of Montrose, D. of Ancaster, E. of Westmoreland, E. of Chesterfield, E. of Burlington, E. of Abingdon, E. of Scarborough, E. of Loudoun, E. of Findlater, E. of Marchmount, E. of Stair, E. of Ilay, E. of Sussex, Visc. Townshend, Visc. Lonsdale, Visc. Cobham, Visc. Falmouth, Visc. Torrington, L. Wilmington, Mr. Chancellor of the Exchequer, L. Chief Justice Eyre, the Lieut. General of the Ordnance, and Henry Pelham, Esq;) to make Report of the Trials of such as were capitally convicted at the said Sessions; and, among others, the Case of Col. Francis Charteris, condemned for a Rape committed on the Body of Anne Bond: And his Majesty having heard severally the Opinions of the said Judges upon the said Case, who all agreed in their Report, was pleased, by the unanimous advice of his Privy-Council, to order the said Francis Charteris should be pardoned, and forthwith admitted to bail. 4 Even. Posts.

We hear that yesterday morning the famous Anne Bond, who prosecuted Col. Chartres for a Rape, was married at Grays-Inn Chapel to Charles Heather, a Drawer at a Tavern in Westminster; and that they have since taken a Tavern in Bloomsbury, and design to set up a well painted Head of Col. Chartres for their sign. St James's Ev.

On tuesday Sir Michael Newton, Knight of the Bath, was married at St. Anne's Church, Westminster, to the Countess of Coningsby, Daughter of the late E. Coningsby, a Lady of a great Fortune. Even. Post.

The Rev. Mr. Parry is appointed by the Dr. and Vestry of St. James, Clerk of that Parish. The Rev. Mr. Tho. Rowen is appointed Curate; and the Rev. Mr. Chauvin, Master of the Oratory school. 4 Even. Posts.

On tuesday her Grace the D. Dowager of Marlborough, viewed the several decayed buildings in the Fryery: and we hear she has given orders to the Inhabitants to provide themselves with other habitations, her Grace intending to make several improvements, for the more commodious prospect of her house. Even. Post.

The same day, a Gentleman, standing at the house of Lords to hear a Cause tried, had his pocket picked of a gold watch and his money. Even. Post.

This private picking of pockets, at the very bar of the highest Court of Judicature, when assembled to do justice, is a very uncommon and audacious instance of wickedness.

We hear, that Newcomb under condemnation in Newgate, for breaking Mr. Hoare's house, has contested, that he robbed Mr. Jenkins the Banker in Lombard street, of a great sum in Modores. Even. St. James's, and Lond. Even. Posts.

Last monday 2 men and a woman were robbed in the Fulham Stage coach, near Walham-green, by 2 foot-pads, who took from them about 3l. Ibid

We hear from Dover, that Richard Lyddell, Esq; embarked for Calais on saturday last. Even. Post.

This Gentleman sets out very late on his Travels.

Mrs. Boscawen Mother to the L. Visc. Falmouth died of a fever on tuesday night, at her house in Park Place, near St. James's, being near 80 years old. 4 Even. Posts. Mother to Sir Phil. Meadows, and Sir John Evelyn's Lady. Courant. Apr 17.

I am well informed, that this Lady for many years never omitted the receiving of the holy Sacrament every sunday; and that she would never be diverted by any Visitors, even of the greatest quality, from going to prayers at the usual hours every day in the week A rare example this for Persons of fashion who are too apt to make religious duties give place to entertainments and diversions. This constant course of regular devotion, as it was accompanied with all the virtues of a Christian life, so it was attended with a happy death: to which she resigned herself, not only with calmness and submission, but even with chearfulness and alacrity.

A List of the Transport Ships taken up by the Commissioners of the navy, April 14.

Tons Men Guns

Anne Galley Robert Brooks 250 20 16

Diamond Tho. Young 220 18 16

St. Quintin Burn. Godley 300 24 16

Loyal Friend Dan Hichins 220 18 8

Neptune Pat. Coppanger 167 14 16

August John Tickner 180 15 12

Williamsburgh Mr. Randolph 460 37 16

Molly Galley Owner 200 16 10

St James's and Lond Even. Posts.

Whitehall, Apr. 13. His Majesty has been pleased to appoint George Barrington, Esq; to be Capt. Gen. and Governor in chief of North Carolina: Will. Tailor, Esq; to be Lieut. Governor of the Province and Territories of Massachusets Bay in New England: and Gilb. Burnet, Hen. Robinson, and George Ross, Esqrs; to be Commissioners of Excise in Scotland. Ibid.

The Rt. Hon. the Earls of Essex and Burlington are chosen Governors of St. Bartholomew's hospital. St James's and Lond. Even. Posts.

Friday, April, 17.

Yesterday came on the election of a Steward of St. Bartholomew's hospital (by balloting): the numbers were Mr. Nath. Woolfreys 141. Mr. John Lloyd 65. Mr. Sellers Thornbery 1. At the time of balloting 1321l. was subscribed by several worthy Governors. and 5800 l. odd money has been subscribed within a year past, towards building a new hospital, instead of the old one. Daily Post.

The Chevalier Ramsey, after he had obtained the degree of Dr. of laws in the University of Oxford, entered himself a member of St. Mary Hall. Post Boy.

A letter (by the way of Cadiz) from on board the St. Bruno at Buenos Ayres, intimates that he had sprung a small leak, which they were going to stop, and that they expected to be at Cadiz in about 10 months; so that the report of her being condemned is with little or no foundation. We hear by the way of Cadiz, that the Spaniards at Buenos Ayres took from the Factors of the South-Sea Company there 32000 hides, promising to return the same number within 16 months. Post Boy.

Sir Charles Wager kissed the King's hand on his being appointed to command a squadron of men of war and transports that are to assist in conducting Don Carlos to Italy. D. Post.

Arthur Stert and John Goddard Esqs; lately appointed Commissaries for settling such differences with Spain as are by the Treaty of Seville referred to Commissaries, have determined to meet twice a week, at Garraway's or some other Coffee house near the Royal-exchange in order to receive the claims which any of our Merchants have on the Spaniards, on account of Captures and Seizures. Daily Journal

Yesterday an Attachment was granted by the Court of King's-bench against one Wm. Brine, a bailiff, for not stewing or delivering to a prisoner he had arrested, a clause in an act of Parliament, intitled, An Act for the relief of debtors, with respect to the imprisonment of their persons, before any victual, drink, &c. were called for, in pursuance of the said act; and likewise for extorting 2 Guineas from him for civility money (as they call it) contrary to the said act. Also the same day a motion was made against a certain Attorney at Law, for a rule to oblige him to shew Cause why an Attachment should not be granted against him for oppression and illegal Practices, and the same was granted by the court. Ibid.

On wednesday morning died, after an illness of 3 days, of a malignant Fever, Mr. Kelsal, second son to Henry Kelsal, Esq; Member of Parliament for St. Michael's in Cornwall, at his father's house in Scotland-yard, Whitehall. Post Boy.

To my certain knowledge, this is false; the young gentleman, who died being Robert, the eldest son, and 8 years old last Month.

On tuesday morning a man well dressed, who had a suit of deep mourning, and a scarlet great coat, was found gagged and tied, a field's breadth out of the foot-road between Kingsland and Hackney; who the evening before was met and robbed by 3 foot-pads of his money and watch. D. Journ.

Saturday, April 18.

Yesterday 5 of the malefactors that received sentence of death at the Old Baily the last Sessions but one, were executed at Tyburn, viz. Pet. Rivers, and Fra. Hackabut, for robbing on the Highway; Will. Newcomb, for felony and burglary; Ferdin. Shrimpton and Rob Drummond, for a robbery on the Highway, and for the murther of Mr. Tyson of Hackney's coachman. These 2 last were afterwards hanged in Chains near the place where the said robbery and murther were committed. Courant.

Mr. Overall received the same day 2 guineas from a Gentleman in Lombard-street, 2 guineas from Mr. H. T. 1 guinea from a Gentleman, 1 guinea brought by a footman, 3 guineas in a letter by a Porter signed G. 2 guineas from Mr. W. M. 1 guinea in a penny-post letter, and half a guinea from Mr. P. C. Post Boy.

A few days since Mr. Collins, a Weaver in Shoreditch, was knocked down in Grace-church-street, by a Street-robber, who made off immediately; 2 Gentlemen seemingly coming to his assistance; but when he came to himself, they departed, and he found he had lost his purse with 14 guineas. Ibid.

This way of robbing seems to have been learned in Westminster-hall: where it is not unusual, for the person who did the injury, to get off unhurt, and for him who received it, to receive double from those who pretend to give him assistance: so that, like Mr. Collins, the latter only finds he has lost; and had better found nothing.

Yesterday at a court at Bridewell the following Gentlemen were admitted Governors of that Hospital and Bethlehem, viz. Sam. Clarke, Esq, Mr. Pycroft, Mr. Tho. Cox, Mr. Gascoign, and Mr. Watts, operator for the teeth; who then received their charge in the usual form. Daily Post.

Yesterday one Isaac Broderick of the Hamlet of Ratcliff and Parish of Stepney, was committed to Newgate by Justice Jones, on the oath of Will. Ham and Edw. Coale, for committing sodimical [sodomitical] practices on their several bodies. He is a school-master, and they his scholars. D. Post.

We hear from Lescard in Cornwall, that Edw. Hawkins, charged with robbing the Exeter Carrier of near 1000l. was apprehended there last saturday, and being carried before Sir John Coryton, was by him committed to Launceston Gaol, where he is well (illegible text). There was found about him a considerable number of guineas and moidores, also 24 bullets of a large size, and 7 flints. D. Journal.

Yesterday the Rev. Dr. Hargrave, Prebendary of Westminster, and Chaplain to his Grace the Duke of Newcastle, was presented by the Dean and Chapter to the Rectory of St. Margaret's, vacant by the death of the late Dr Gee. Ibid.

On thursday the Commissioners for the affair of Chelsea admitted upward of 50 soldiers lately discharged out of the several regiments. Even. Post.

We hear that the late Lord Chief Baron Pengelly has made Mr. Webb his sole Executor, and given him all his real estate, without account; which, it is thought, is worth 30,000l. He has also left a considerable sum of money to discharge prisoners in several goals for debt in the western Circuit. The Even and St. James's Even.

We hear his Lordship has left about 10,000l. in legacies, all his real estate to Mr. Webb, his Clerk, and appointed him sole executor and residuary legatee, by which is thought he'll get near 40,000l. Lond. Even. Post.

On saturday died John Pigot, of Brockley, Esq; High Sheriff of the County of Somerset, of the Goal distemper, which he caught the last Assizes. 4 Even. Posts.

The following paragraph is in Baker's Chronicles, pag. 351. Edit. 1730.

At the Assizes at Oxford, 19 Eliz. The Court were surprised with a pestilent savour, whether rising from the noisom smell of the prisoners, or from the damp of the ground, is uncertain: but all that were present, within 40 hours, died, except women and children; and the contagion went no farther. There died Rob. Bell, L. Ch. Baron, Rob. Doylie, Sir Wm. Babington D'oyle, Sheriff of Oxfordshire, Harcourt, Weyman, and Fettiplace. The most of them men in this tract, Barham, the famous Lawyer, almost all the Jurors, and 300 others, more or less. Universal Spectator, London Even. Post.

This day an Execution was issued against Ric Lyddel, Esq; for 10,000l. being the damages given against him last Term. St. James's Even. Post.

A noble Earl was attack'd last sunday night in St. Margaret's-lane, Westm. by 2 foot robbers, between 9 and 10. this Lordship making some resistance, and defending himself with his cane, was stabb'd in the hand with a pen knife. Ibid.

Our letters from Paris have brought us a Paper handed about there in French, Spanish, and Italian, and said to be one of the secret Articles of the Treaty of Seville, which relates altogether to Gibraltar and Port Mahon; and by which the said Places are to be surrender'd to the Spaniards within 3 years, with some circumstances highly dishonourable to England. Fog's Journal.

Why should our Brother publish such Articles as cannot possibly be true?

Monday, April 20.

The account in most of the Papers, of Mr. Rouse of Hampstead having pleaded his pardon, is so far from being true; that there are no orders given for a pardon to pass the seals, nor has the L. Ch. Justice yet made his report, Courant.

On saturday died of the gout in his stomach, at his house in Swithin's lane, John Lane, Esq, one of the Governors of St. Thom. hospital. Cour. D. Post, and D. Jour.

Mr. Overall received the same day 3 guineas from an unknown hand by D. W. for the Fire-mens widows. Post Boy, Daily Post.

Last saturday the L. Visc. Torrington and Sir John Ackworth waited on his Royal Highness the Duke, to explain the several parts of the curious model of the Orford man of war, that was presented to him by the Lady Tipping, valued at 500l. It is the model of that Ship in which the E. of Orford commanded the English Fleet, when he beat the French under Admiral Ponty. Daily Post.

Col. Chartres, who was thought to be gone to Bath, hath hired lodgings at Kensington Gravel-pits [not far from Tyburn]: and last saturday, as he was going in a hackney coach to Chelsea, the mob set upon him, and beat him in a most barbarous manner, for no other reason than that there were 2 women with him in the coach. Ibid.

Had the Col had his deserts, he had avoided this ill usage.

Tuesday, April 21.

Saturday last the Lady of Sir Peter Soames, Bar. was safely delivered of a son and heir, to the great joy of that family. Post Boy.

Mr. Overall received yesterday for the Firemens widows, 3 guineas from Mr. R. K. 1 guinea from Mr. J. C. half a guinea from Mr. J. H. and 5s. from Mr. G. B. Ib.

Besides the 3 Regiments in garrison at Gibraltar, ordered to go with Don Carlos, 3 other Regiments, together with a Battalion from each of the 3 Regiments of foot-guards have been since appointed to attend that expedition, viz. L. Tyrawley's, Kirk's, and Grove's: and we hear, that the E. of Scarborough is to go Commandant of the Guards, the D. of Argyle General and Commander in chief of the whole, assisted by Gen. Sabine, and the L. Mark Kerr. Daily Post.

Yesterday was held a grand Council at St. James's on the subject matter of some expresses lately arrived from the Courts of Berlin, Vienna and France. Even. P.

Yesterday the workmen began to pull down part of St. Bartholomew's hospital. 4 Even. Posts.

Orders are given for his Majesty's house near Richmond to be fitted up for the Reception of the Royal Family for a few days before the Court goes to Windsor. Ibid.

A curious monument is putting up in Westminster-abbey, in memory of the late famous Sir Godfrey Kneller, Bar. upon which the following inscription (made by Mr. Pope) will be engrav'd, viz.

Kneller, by heaven, and not a master, taught;

Whose art was nature, and Whose pictures thought;

When now two ages, he had snatch'd from fate

Whate'er was beauteous, or whate'er was great;

Rests crown'd with Princes honour, Poets lays,

Due to his merit, and brave thirst of praise:

Living, great nature feared he might out-vie

Her works; and dying, fears herself, may dye.

St. James's Even. Post.

Wednesday, April 22.

Mr. Overall received yesterday, for the Firemens Widows, from unknown hands, by Mr. C. C. 5 guineas and a half; by Mr. S. J. 2 guineas; from Mrs. Eliz. Trafford 2 guineas and a half; from Mrs. Mart. Trafford 2 guineas; and from Mr. J. F. 6s. Post Boy

Yesterday Mr. Lyddel moved the Court of Common-pleas for a new Trial; but it was not granted. Ibid.

The same day a Proclamation. was published, prohibiting any person to lend any sum of money, to any foreign Prince, State, &c. without his Majesty's licence. Daily Post.

John Carter, who had been ordered for execution, but obtained a reprieve, has now got another in order to transportation. Ibid.

The report, that the Prince Royal of Prussia would shortly come to England is without foundation. Daily Journal

The Queen has purchased several 100 acres of Land lying between Richmond and Kew Green, of the Lady Molineux, which is to be laid to the Royal Gardens at Richmond. Daily Journal

A monument is putting up at Westminster-Abbey, in memory of the later Congreve, at the expence of her Grace Henrietta Dutchess of Marlborough. Ibid.

Edinburgh, Apr. 13. Yesterday the Taylor who personated a Minister, and perform'd holy Offices, stood again at the Cannongate Church-Door, with his Hands fetter'd, and these Words affix'd on his Breast, This is a Villain who pretended to be a Minister. This day he is to be whipp'd. Post Boy.

Dublin, Ap. 11. Yesterday at a general Assembly held at the Tholsel Alderman Percival Hunt was elected L. Mayor. Courant.

* * *

FOREIGN NEWS.

Thursday, April 16.

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from France.

Paris, Apr. 22. On the 13th 2 councils of war were held at Marshall Villars's, one in the morning, the other in the afternoon; at which were present most of the Marshalls of France, many Lieutenant-Generals, and the ministers of the Allies of Seville: and it was resolved in these councils, that the Regiments of Roussillon, Toulouse and Flanders, under the command of M. de Nissen, should embark at Toulon, for the service of the King of Spain. The court has sent circular Letters to all the Colonels, commanding them to repair to their Regiments by the 1 of next Month. Daily Post.

Yesterday arrived the Mail from Flanders.

Petersburg, Mar. 27. Capt. Berings, a Sea Officer return'd intact the 27th ult. from Kantscbatka whither he was sent by the Czarina Katherine, pursuant to the orders of Peter I. to try to discover the north-east passage, Feb. 5. 1725, which he has found there is; and that, unless impeded by ice, men may go by sea from Lena to Kantscbatka, and from thence to Japan, China, and the East-Indies. The Even. St. James, Lond. Even. Posts.

Viena, Ap. 8. They write from Constantinople, that the Grand Seignior having receiv'd certain advice of the defeat of Sultan Esreffs army, and even of his death, had sent away the Sultan's Minister, and greatly caressed him that resides there on the part of Prince Thomas, Ibid.

Saturday, April 18.

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from Holland.

Vienna, Apr. 2. The 2d Column of imperial Troops that are actually marching for Italy, through the Territories of Bavaria, Saltzback, and Tirol, is composed of 14 Battalions, and 23 Squadrons. D. Post.

Monday, April 20.

Paris, Ap. 24. N.S. 10000 Imperialists with 40 pieces of cannon are now actually marching down to Leghorn, to defend the Dutchy of Tuscany from any attempt, and to preserve the right the Emperor has to that Fief. Post Boy.

Tuesday, April 21.

Homburg, April 10. We hear from Mecklembourg, that the Nobility of that Duchy had resolved in a particular Assembly to send to Vienna two Deputies, to represent to his Imperial Majesty the miserable Condition of that Country, and to beseech him to put an end to the Troubles that have desolated them so long. It is written from Stockholm of the 12th of this Month, that the 6000 Men who are to enter into the Service of France, were actually on their march for Carelsoroon, where they are to embark to be transported to Stralsund; and that Admiral Taube has made Report to the King that the Men of War which are building at Carelseroon, will be finished before Autumn; and that his Majesty's naval Forces will then consist of 36 Men of War of the Line, and 19 Frigates, besides the Galeys and other armed Vessels. Daily Post.

Saller, Mar. 28 King Muly Abdalla having lett all the wax to farm, has caused grant uneasiness among the people; and many of them refuse to sell their wax to the Farmers at any price. And as great part of the Country his not yet acknowledged him, he is making preparation to set out in person to reduce them to his obedience. The Even. and St. James Even. Posts.

From the Pegasus in Grub-street.

We are informed, that Eustace Budgell, Esq; appeared on tuesday at St. James's: where, without any introduction, be presented a memorial to his Majesty; and afterwards made a surprising speech to him, in which, among other things, he complained much of the present ministry.

N.B. The Letter concerning easy Writing, and containing likewise some Emendations in the first Book of Milton's Paradise lost was received: and if the Gentleman will please to send his Emendations in the second and third, they shall be as communicated to the Public together, or at least as many as the limits of our Journal will permit.

The Letter to Mr. Deputy James Jones, Waste-paper Merchant in the long Walk near Smithfield, (a person for whom we have the greatest regard imaginable, on the account of his goodness and humanity towards some of our unfortunate members) has been laid before the Society: and will be considered next wednesday, unless something very extraordinary happen to prevent it.

* * *

Ships arriv'd at and sail'd from Great Britain, from April 15, to April 22.

Ships Captains From For

Arriv'd Bristol.

14. Bridget

15. Ja. Snow Oporto

16. Margaret Bevan ditto

18. Bedminster Cornish N. England

Falmouth

10 Phenix Clies S. Sebastian

Adventure Dartmouth Newfoundla.

12. Expedition Clies Lisbon

Betty Philips Canaries

Regard Turner London Virginia

Unity Brickson Norway

Evendrost Brygen Belfast Nantz

Eagle Corunna

S. J. Bapt. Harvey London Cadiz

Dolphin Dean Pool Newfoundla.

Dartmouth. Sailed

17. William Teague Penzance 14. Charming

Sarah Basset Plymouth Mol. & P.F.

Southampton.

15. Dolabella Stephens Malaga 14. Farmer,

Providence Erickson Norway & Catherine

12. Sweathland Boohi Cette

Downs bound home.

14. Don Francis. Saltar Lisbon

15. India Merch. Barlow Smirna

Boneta Davy Malaga

Elizabeth Pulistone Lisbon

17. Crown Werry Leghorn

Charles Devon

London Savage

Belvidere Cole Messina

Lemon Blackabee Lisbon

Anne Speed Cadiz

19. Oratavia Maxey Canaries

Nile Matthews Alexandria

20. Bertauda Mer. Heron S. Kitts

Endeavour Hartley Malaga

Downs bound out.

14. Earl & Count Lunden Scotland Lisbon

Martha Ports Newcastle Boston

16. Q. Caroline Webb Guinea

Jacob Brock Sailed Bilboa

Dove Bourn 17. Blandfor. Jamaica

Will. & Mary Porter for N. Engl. Fial

Success Rider Blackburn Limeric

Octavia Guy for Jamaica. Canaries

God. Fleece Compton Exeter

Will & Barbara Moore Lymington

17. Mary Bowles Seville

18. Fortune Cuthbert Havre

Mary Glass Lisbon

Gravesend, bound home. Bound out

14. Joseph Knowler Operto and sailed

Ja. Goodwill Crockat Caroline 13. William

Charles Cromby Dieppe Anne & Eliz.

Catherine Taylor Calais Young John

Salisbury Smith Lisbon Mary

Vineyard Grenier Oporto Depthford

Canterbury Judwin N. England. Consent

Neptune Smith Dunkirk Fortune

15. S. Cecilia Jordain Oporto 15. Expediti.

Speedwell Astley Guernsey Anne

Betty & Mary Southern Malaga Cham. Jane

Somers Hellie Carolina P. Asturias

16. Mary & Eliz. Thurkettle Guernsey 16. Mary

Love Peters Amsterdam Eagle

Boneta Davy Malaga Providence

17. Providence Viscount Sallee Elizabeth

Elizabeth Pulistone Lisbon 18. Lady El.

Ch. & Eliz. Laud Oporto Ann. & Mary

9. Elea & Eliz. Laud ditto Justice

Susanna Hudson Alicant 19. Townsen.

Lady Marg. Witt Hamburgh Woodford

Hanover Dale Norway Mahon

Crown Wetty Leghorn Vineyard

Belvedere Cole Messina Wellcome

20. White Hearn Norway Hen. & Pris.

The Course of the Exchange.

Amsterdam 34 4 a 5

Ditto at Sight 34 1

Rotterdam 34 5

Antwerp 35

Hamburgh 33 1

Paris at Sight 32 1 half

Bourdeaux at sight 32 1 4th

Cadiz 42 5 8ths a 1 half

Madrid 43 a 2 7 8ths

Bilboa 42 3 4ths

Leghorn 51 5 8ths

Genoa 54 3 4ths

Venice 49

Lisbon 5s. 6d. 1⁄2

Porto 5s. 5d. 1⁄4

Dublin 12 1 4th

Prices of Goods at Bear Key on Tuesday.

per Quarter

Wheat 30 to 36

Rye 26 to 28

Barley 25 to 28

Oats 15 to 16 6

Horse Beans 26 to 28

Hog Peas 26 to 28

Boiling Peas 22 to 24 6

Pale Malt 26 to 31

Brown Malt 26 to 28

Tares 20 to 21

Coals 24s. to 28 s. per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 26s. to 38s. per Hundred.

Hops 1729 39s. to 56s. per Hundred.

Rape Seed 15l. to 16l. 10s. per Last.

On Tuesday Stocks were

South-Sea 102 1 4th. Annuities 107 1 half. Bank 140 1 4th. Bank Circulation 3 4ths Premium. India 186 1 half. Three per Cent. Annuity 95. Million Bank 107 1 half. Equivalent 102 1 half. African 48. Royal Exchange Assurance 93. London Assurance 12 3 8ths. York Buildings 16 3 8ths. English Copper 3l. 12s. Welch ditto 1l. 10s. per Share. India Bonds 5l. 1s. Prem. South Sea Bonds 4l. 4s. Premium. Nevis and St. Christopher Debentures at 6 per Cent. Disc.

* * *

ADVERTISEMENTS.

This Day is published,

Printed on a superfine Paper, in two Volumes in Quarto,

SOME Observations made in travelling through France, Italy, &c. in the Years 1720, 1721 and 1722: Containing a large and particular Account of the most remarkable Curiosities in those Countries, as well such as relate to their Manners, Customs, religious Orders, Ceremonies, &c. as likewise of their Architecture, Paintings, Sculpture, and other Antiquities, which are esteemed most worthy of the Observation of an English Traveller. With some short Remarks on the Air, Soil, Productions, Trade, Manufactures of several Places, occasionally interspersed. By Edward Wright, Esq; illustrated with 40 curious Drawings, design'd upon the Spot by the Author, and engrav'd on Copper by the best Hands.

Printed for Messieurs Ward and Wicksteed in the Inner Temple Lane.

* * *

This Day is Publish'd,

THE LIFE of the Right Rev. Dr. White Kennett, late Lord Bishop of Peterborough, with several original Letters of the late Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr. Tennison; the late Earl of Sunderland; Bishop Kennett, &c. and some curious original Papers and Records, never before published. And also

The Foreigner's Guide: Or, a necessary and instructive Companion, both for the Foreigner and Native, in their Tour through the Cities of London and Westminster. Giving,

1st. A general Description of these two Cities, with an Account of their respective Government.

2dly. A Description of the Royal Palaces, Noblemans Houses, publick Buildings, Churches, Streets, Squares, and the most remarkable Places in and near the famous Metropolis: With an Account of the Inns of Court, Royal Society, publick Walks, Diversions, remarkable Days, Court Days, Post Days. And,

3dly. A Description of the several villages in the Neighbourhood; as Chelsea, Kensington, Richmond, Greenwich, Woolwich, Hampstead; and also others more remote, viz. Hampton-Court,

Windsor, Oxford, Cambridge, Blenheim, New-Market Horse Races, Epsom, Tunbridge, Bath. And,

4thly. An Account of the Rates of Coaches, Watermen; and also the Rates of Post Horses; with the Roads to Dover and Harwich.

Very useful and entertaining both to Foreigner and Native, and done into English and French.

Where may be had,

LOVE LETTERS on all Occasions, lately passed between Persons of Distinction. Collected by Mrs. Eliza. Haywood,

Pleasure with Sorrow, Peace with War allay'd,

Liberty fetter'd, Hope by Fear dismay'd;

Imbitter'd Honey, Earnest mix'd with Play,

Are, Love! the Emblems of thy sov'reign Sway.

Printed for, and sold by Francis Cogan, at the Middle-Temple Gate in Fleet street.

* * *

This Day is published,

A Sermon preached at the Church of St. Lawrence Jury, London, March 3, 1730, being Easter Tuesday. By Joseph Trapp, D.D. at his entring on the Tuesday Lecture there. Published at the Request of the Vestry.

Printed for Lawton Gilliver at Homer's Head, opposite to St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet-street.

Where may be had,

His Sermon on the 30th of January, preached at St. Paul's, being the Fast Day for the execrable murder of King Charles I. Published at the Request of the Lord Mayor and Sheriffs.

* * *

Books printed and sold by John Brotherton at the Bible in Cornhill.

Life of Oliver Cromwel, 8vo.

Collection of Novels, 12mo 6 Vol.

D'Anois Tales of the Fairies, 3 Vol. 12 mo.

Free Thoughts on Religion.

Pilgrim's Progress in 8vo, with Cuts, 2 Vol.

Spectators, 8 Vol.

Prideaux Connection, 4 Vol.

Musical Misc. 4 Vol. 8vo.

The Dancing Master, by Mr. John Essex, 4to.

Boyer's Telemachus, 12mo.

Gay's Fables, 8vo.

Gordon's Geog. Grammar.

Boyer's Dictionary in 4to, or 8vo.

Blais's Sermons, 5 Vol. 8vo.

Shakespear's Plays.

Addison's Works, 4 Vol.

Lockyer's Trade to India

Abelard's Letters

Garth's Ovid, 2 Vol

Plutarch's Lives, 8 Vol.

Don Quixot, 4 Vol.

Guardians, 2 Vol.

Ovid's Epistles

Dryden's Virgil.

* * *

OPERA'S with the MUSICK.

This Day is published,

THE FASHIONABLE LADY; or, HARLEQUIN's OPERA. In the Manner of a Rehearsal. As it is performed at the Theatre in Goodman's-Fields. Written by Mr. Ralph. With the Musick prefixed to each Song.

Also just published, the 3d Edition (with Alterations) of

The Lover's Opera. As it is acted at the Theatre-Royal in Drury-lane. Written by Mr. Chetwood. With the Musick prefixed to each Song.

Momus turned Fabulist, or, Vulcan's Wedding An Opera. After the Manner of the Beggar's Opera. As it is performed at the Theatre-Royal in Lincoln's-Inn-Fields, With the Musick prefixed to each Song.

The Beggar's Opera. As it is acted at the Theatre-Royal in Lincoln's-Inn Fields. Written by Mr. Gay. The second Edition. To which is added the Ouverture in Score: With the Musick prefixed to each Song.

Love in a Riddle. A Pastoral. As it is acted at the Theatre-Royal by his Majesty's Servants. Written by Mr. Cibber. With the Musick to each Song.

The Village Opera. As it is acted at the Theatre-Royal by his Majesty's Servants. Written by Mr Johnson. With the Musick prefix'd to each Song.

The Quaker's Opera. As it is performed at Lee's and Harper's Great Theatrical Booth in Bartholomew-Fair. With the Musick to each song.

And also just publish'd, the fourth Edition, of

The Fair Circassian, a Dramatick Performance. Done from the Original by a Gentleman-Commoner of Oxford. To which are added several Occasional Poems, by the same Author.

All painted for J. WATTS at the Printing-Office in Wild-Court, near Lincoln's-Inn Fields, and sold by the Booksellers both in Town and Country.

* * *

This Day is Publish'd,

AN Epistle to Philip Dormer, Earl of Chesterfield, occasioned by the late and present Situation of Affairs, in regard to War and Peace, by

Mr. BARFORD

Aspera tum positis mitescent sæcula bellis.

Virg.

———Inter se firmabant fœdera diclas

Conspectu in medis Procerum

Virg.

Printed for Lawton Gulliver at Homer's Head against St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet-street.

* * *

This Day is published,

THE NURSE'S GUIDE; or, a right Method of bringing up young Children. To which is added, An Essay on preserving Health and Long Life; with a Treatise on the Gout.

By an eminent Physician.

Printed for John Brotherton at the Bible in Cornhill, and Lawton Gilliver at Homer's Head in Fleet-street.

Where may be had,

A General System of Hydrostaticks and Hydraulicks, philosophical and practical. An Enquiry into the Original and Rise of Springs: Draughts and Descriptions of the best Engines for distributing Water for the Supply of Country Seats, Cities, &c. illustrated. and explained by 60 copper Cuts. Done by the best Hands. In 2 Vols. in 4to. By Mr. Switzer.

* * *

This Day are Publish'd,

PROPOSALS.

For Engraving by Subscription,

Twelve large PRINTS of the most stupendous and stately Fabricks of the Roman Empire, viz Amphitheatres, Theatres, Circus's, &c. By B. Roberts. Wherein will be exhibited their antient, as well as present State: With their Plans, Elevations, Sections, &c. in different Views, from the best Originals. And to each will be added; A brief historical Account for what these Fabricks were originally defined, who were their Founders, and what Changes they have undergone, as far as they can be traced from History.

N.B. Each Print will be about 23 Inches long, and 18 broad. Each Subscriber is to pay half a Guinea down, and as much more at the Delivery of the Prints. They are in good Forwardness, and will be ready to be delivered about the Middle of December next. Subscribers for six Setts shall have a seventh gratis.

Subscriptions are taken in, and a Specimen may be seen at Mr. Brotherton's, Bookseller in Cornhill, Mr. Gilliver's, at Homer's Head in Fleet-street; Mr. Whirridge's, at the Corner of Castle-Alley, under the Royal-Exchange; Mr. King's, a Print-Shop, at the Globe in the Poultry; Mr. Samuel Sympson's, in Katherine-street in the Strand; and Mr. Bird's, a Frame-maker, in Star-Alley in Fenchurch-Street.

* * *

LONDON: Printed for Capt. Gulliver and F. Cogan near the Temple, Mr. Jackson in Pall-Mall, and J. Brotherton near the Exchange, and Sold by J. Roberts in Warwick-Lane, where Letters and Advertisements, &c. are taken in. [Price Two Pence.]


