The Grub-street Journal — May 28th, 1730

Exported from Wikisource on May 12, 2026

Numb. 21.

The Grub-street Journal.

* * *

Thursday, MAY 28. 1730.

* * *

Their heavy Prose our injur'd reason tires;

Their Verse immoral kindles loose desires.

Young's I Epist. to Mr. Pope.

It has been a frequent practice with the members of our Society, when at any time they have engaged in an undertaking of this nature, to write Letters to themselves, in order to excite others to do the same; and so assist them in filling up their Papers. For our parts, we are forced to lay aside many of the Letters, which are every day directed to me. Some are pleased to bestow such high complements on me, that my modesty will not permit me to read them to the Society; whilst others treat me in so rough a manner, that it is not thought for my reputation to discover their censures to the Public. A third sort of Correspondents so far mistake the very design of this Paper, that I am forced to lay their Letters aside, or take the liberty of making many alterations in them.

One of them, to whom our Society has been obliged for the Bailiff's Epitaph, is angry at the emendations of another of our Friends; and sticks by his own reading with the proper warmth of a Critic. To be even with the other Gentleman, he charges his Epitaph on William Claw with being spurious, and says it is thus in the genuine Copies:

Poor William Claw,

Attorney at Law,

At last is at rest:

Nam hic situs est.

This zeal for a genuine reading is very commendable: but I must confess, that I think the first reading so much better, that if it is not the true one, I cannot help wishing it was. The same Gentleman has sent me a copy of a Welch Gentleman's Inventory, desiring it might be inserted in our next Paper: in which I should have obliged him, if I had not known it to be in print already. The following letter is printed at length, without any abridgment.

To Mr. Bavius, Secretary to the Grubean Society.

SIR,

THE Honourable Mr. Boyl, I well remember, in a Preface to one of his excellent Treatises, seems to wish that at some considerable distance of time, we had a clear account of the authors who have appeared in publick, upon what Subjects they have written, and in their respective pieces what truths they have brought into the learned world. Mr. Boyl seems very much pleased with this thought, and I believe you will agree with me, that it would be much more useful now, than at the time that Gentleman wrote. I heartily wish he had left us a Specimen of such a Work as this; but as he has not, I despair of ever seeing so useful a thing well accomplished. In these times every body must at first sight apprehend the advantage of such a thing as this and I must own, upon the consideration of the views our present Writers seem to be possessed with, I had once a mind to have written something upon this subject my self, for these last twenty years; and I really believe, according to the method I proposed to my self, it would have been comprised in a small Volume. The chief reason of my not proceeding in this affair, was the publication of your Journal: which being the Work of so ingenious a Society, and, as I thought, aiming at much the same thing, quite dishearten'd me from making any progress in it. I confess your Papers hitherto have not been altogether adequate to the method I proposed; or that I flatter'd my self I should find in them. For do assure you, I should have spent very little time upon the Gentleman, whom I found to have told the world nothing but what was published twenty or thirty years before, to much greater advantage. I never intended to say a word upon the many Novels, Plays and such things, as have been written only to amuse, without making any one discovery, or adding the least truth to Science.

And now, Sir, I hope you'll give me leave to tell you, I was not a little surprised upon reading your last Paper, to find you had condescended to make your remarks upon a Farce, and that written by no more considerable a person than Mr. Ralph; one, who would certainly have lived and died in obscurity, had it not been for the ingenious Author of the Dunciad, who left him to be hooted at by the Owls. I am sorry to find you should have no greater regard to the honour of your self and Society, than to offer to ridicule a person of his Stamp; especially upon so frivolous a subject, as that of a Farce. You don't seem to reflect, that Virgil's satirizing Bavius (as your worthy President observes,) gave the common people of Rome an occasion of thinking him not altogether inconsiderable; and at least has been the means of handing his name down to posterity. For Heaven's sake, Mr. Bavius, what occasion was there to publish that medley of wretched similes, and Billingsgate language, you have collected from that Gentleman's Farce? Is it not sufficient, that such language is vented in Goodman's fields to make night hideous; but that you must needs have it over again in your weekly Paper, to stun the ears of your readers? Indeed I cannot forbear delivering my thoughts freely to you, that such Subjects, and such Authors, will sink your Paper, much below the Idea I had conceived of it. I apprehended your design had been to let us know the Character of each Author and writing that shall appear in publick: and with this view your Paper will certainly merit esteem. I will allow you indeed, when you are recommending an Author to the world, to give us some farther taste of his beauties, than your bare word; nay, even to extend your panegyrick to the length of a Paper: but when you Speak of a mere Scribbler, a word shall satisfie me without giving your self the trouble of any quotations, at least very few. You may perhaps imagine, that I apply the word Scribbler to this Author out of some private pique or quarrel: but I do assure you, I have no other aversion to him, but what has been given me by his Writings, having no acquaintance at all with his person.

You may possibly think me a very odd whimsical Fellow: but I do assure you, I had no sooner read your Recipe from Dr. Robinson's Theory of Physick, than I sent for the Book, and could not prevail with my self to lay it down, til I had gone through almost all the Recipes: and I really believe, if you was to quote the Book again, I should not forbear reading it through; but at present, I thank God, that passion is abated. I have not indeed yet ventured to read his Treatise upon the Spleen and Vapours. For you must know, being a single man, I prudently considered, that those rapturous thoughts upon a certain passion, wou'd go near to overwhelm me. Your Quotations from Dr. Turner are indeed somewhat different from this last Gentleman's, being so very plain and easy, as not to give an over great conflict to any of the senses; so that I could read your quotations from him, without any further desire of his writings, than what proceeds merely from an ambition I have to furnish the empty shelves in my library. Now, Mr. Bavius, as I doubt not but several of your Readers are let into the same way of thinking with my self, you would be very obliging to give us only short hints of the dangerous writings of such men as these; and not put us to the expence of buying Books, to indulge a passion we can infinitely better gratify in Don Quixot or Gulliver. In short, if you approve of my method, and resolve not to spend your time upon such Scribblers, as are only the amusement of Tyro's; I shall gain my end in reading your Paper: if not, for reasons I have already told you I think I had better let it alone.

I am, SIR,

Your very humble Servant.

Fetter lane, April 28, 1730.

P.S. I will allow you to dwell a little longer, and be more particular, when you censure any Writing of a person, who has before, upon other Subjects, written better.

Upon reading this Letter, Mr. President, with the approbation of the Society, ordered me to let the Writer know, that it was our chief design to give a particular account of books, published only since last New years day, that being the Æra, from which our Memoirs begin; and that we shall take notice, of those antecedent to that time, only occasionally. That however, if this Gentleman will communicate to us any Critical Remarks upon Authors, either before, or since, we shall consider them with the greatest impartiality, and not suppress them but upon the justest reasons. That he goes a little too far in censuring us for condescending to make our remarks upon a Farce. For can those subjects be too low for our notice, which are become the entertainments of the highest audience? Are any of our Theatres supported by any dramatic pieces, but Farces? He is likewise desired to forbear for the future all opprobrious appellations of any Gentleman of our Society, such as Scribbler, &c. which he has in so contemptuous a manner applied to the learned Mr. Ralph, at the same time extolling our profest enemy, the Author of the Dunciad. This Author, in peg. 148. of that book, has a violent note again this Gentleman: in which he says, that he wrote a swearing piece against Dr. Swift, Mr. Gay, and him; that he once praised himself highly above Mr Addison, in wretched Remarks upon that Author's Account of English Poets, printed in a Lond. Journ. Sept. 1728 that he was wholly illiterate, and knew no language, not even French; and that being advised to read the rules of poetry before he began a Play, he smiled, and replied, Shakespear writ without rules. Now, tho' this Account be very improbable, yet supposing it true, it carries in it a real panegyric on this Gentleman, by a tacit acknowledgment of his extraordinary parts. Without which, a Person, not understanding any language but English, and consequently not throughly understanding that, could never have raised himself to that eminence as to be the Inventor of a new species of Poetry, a Pindarick Ode in blank Verse; a species so sublime, that not one person has had the presumption to imitate him therein.

The following Letter addressed to our Society, being somewhat too long, it was thought proper to abridge it a little; but the whole substance has been preserved.

Gentlemen,

YOU have justly observed, in your Journal, Numb. 14. that the actions of Great men are not cognizable by the Vulgar; and that it is not reasonable, that plebeian Juries should presume to give a Verdict upon Facts, which, tho' criminal when committed by one of the Populace, are to be considered in another light, when men of birth or fortune are concerned.

That learned Member of your Society, the candid Author of the Sessions Paper, seems to well apprized of this truth; that it is believed, he will not expose to the perusal of the Vulgar an account of those vexatious prosecutions against Gentlemen of spirit and humour, in that circumstantial manner which has been formerly practis'd, but that those Narratives will be castrated for the future of all opprobrious particulars given in evidence, which may be prejudicial to the character of Gentlemen. He has on several occasions shewed himself so excellently qualified for this undertaking, by accommodating the accounts of public Tryals to private conveniencies; that it is a great question, whether a more proper person could have been found throughout this whole City.

But with great submission, I must take the liberty to say, that I think Mr. P{———NE has gone a little too far, in introducing the judges, as approving and patronizing this way of procedure. For I apprehend it to be inconsistent with their avowed profession, as well as daily practice; who oblige persons, before they give evidence, solemnly to swear, that they will declare the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. How then can they be supposed to authorize a Piece, wherein the greater part of the truth is suppressed, and only a small part published, and even that sweetened with salvos, and mollifying clauses?

I make no question but Mr. P———NE had weighty reasons for what he published relating to the Tryal of Pet. Costyn: tho' one of the Judges took so great offence at it, that he threatened to send him to Newgate; and was, with much difficulty, appeased by his submission and begging pardon in a public manner. In this submission he acknowledged under his hand, that he had inserted in the Sessions Paper the evidence of John Gardiner, tho' not admitted by the Court; that he had misrepresented the matter, and omitted several material points of evidence for the King. [See Daily Post, Dec. 4, 1729.

This storm being blown over, this faithful Author is still ready to oblige any Gentleman for a valuable consideration, in the same way, even at the hazard of a subsequent submission and retractation. No Gentleman who has had the misfortune to hold up his hand at the bar, can be happier in an authorized Publisher of the transactions at the Old Baily, than Co. Francisco has been. In some places he inserts several independent sentences, with no other transition than a ———. In others, he shews an equal dexterity in connecting things, spoken at different times, and in answer to different questions, into one continued discourse: always taking care to drop any casual inconsistencies, occasioned by any impertinent questions of the opposite Counsel; a proceeding necessary to make the Colonel's evidence appear more plausible and uniform. The cross examination of his witnesses is no less artfully omitted, as not material: and the whole evidence on the part of A. B———d is comprised in a few lines. In a word, the whole performance is allowed by all to be so judiciously drawn, that nothing in its kind can exceed it; and is sold at so small a price as 6d, a convincing proof, that the Author is not mercenary. And therefore I hope, Gentlemen, you will be so just to his merit, as not to let this Piece pass unobserved into Mr. Jones's silent Repository, without its just encomium. I am,

Your constant Reader, and humble Servant, N. H.

Moorfields, May 4, 1730.

The conduct of this worthy Member, which this Gentleman blames so much, is that which is generally pursued by Historians and Biographers, who amongst always, either by additions, or omissions, give a favourable or disadvantageous turn to things, according as they are well or ill affected, towards the persons of whom they write. And surely to do this, for weighty reasons, or a valuable consideration, is much more commendable, than to be byass'd by prejudice or partiality. But from the nature of the subject, we can more easily account for this Historians conciseness, whose modesty would not suffer him to give a circumstantial detail of such particulars, as must needs have been very offensive to all chaste persons. And tho' abundance of his Readers were hereby deceived; yet he did them rather a benefit, than an injury, by disappointing a lascivious curiosity.

We wish these Gentlemen of our Society who have published Memoirs of the noble Colonel's life, and Epistolary Poems, relating either to his case, or to that of a late unfortunate Lady, had imitated the modesty of the Historiographer of the Old Baily. They had not then deserved that severity, with which they are now justly treated by Mr. Mævius in the following verses.

 When sickness reigns, and sharp diseases spread,

Physicians thrive by Living, and by Dead.

When crimes increase, if Little Villains swing,

Or Great escape, Grubean Authors sing.

Of Those the Facts, the fortune, or the fate,

In lewd, gay, dismal numbers, these relate.

 The pains our bodies from disease endure,

By art, or chance, Physicians often cure.

Of vice, the minds disease, the fiercer rage,

These scribbling Quacks inflame, but ne'er assuage.

 If rapes, or lewd intrigues amuse the Town;

Joyful they seize these subjects for their own.

In prose, or verse, inspir'd with wine, or ale,

Inphrase obscene they tell the nasty tale.

Sad, merry, wretched, short-liv'd mortals they,

Their works and selves forgotten in a day.

 Thus, where by chance some filthy ordure lies,

A swarm of blind, light, lean, and hungry Flies,

Warm'd by the solar rays, and buzzing round,

Transported at their own harmonious sound,

Feed on the fragrant heap with vast delight,

Luxurious all the day, then die at night.

Bavius

* * *

LONDON.

Thursday, May 21.

Yesterday his Majesty, on horseback, reviewed the 4 Troops of Horse-grenadiers, in Hyde park. His R. H. the Prince, with his H. the Duke, and divers of the Nobility were present on horseback also. Her Majesty, with the 3 eldest Princesses, were in their coaches. They were all exercised on foot before his Majesty, who seem'd to be fully satisfied with their performances; after which they marched singly before his Majesty. It was 11 o' Clock before the R. Family came into the Park, who returned again at in the afternoon. Post Boy.

We hear that the double Marriages talked of between the Royal Families of Great Britain and Prussia will not be brought about this year. D. Post.

Dr. Arbuthnot is appointed Physician to the Queen, in the place of Dr. Friend. Ibid.

Saturday last the Hon. John Harvey, Esq, commonly called Lord Harvey, and Col. Thom. Norton were rechosen Members of Parliament for St. Edmund's-bury without opposition. Sir Charles Turner was also unanimously rechosen last monday for Lynn Regis. Ibid.

On tuesday the charity children of St. Martin's, being his Majesty's Parish Church, preceded by their Master, and the Beadles of the said Parish, were presented before their Majesties, and the Royal Family, and made a procession round the great Court at St. James's. Ibid.

This day the Court removed from St. James's to Richmond, and will continue there till the apartment at Windsor be fitted up. Even. Post.

His Majesty hath been pleased to appoint Brigadier Gen. Thom. Panton, to be Major Gen. of his Majesty's forces. On mond. morn. died Major Harrison, of Col. Newton's Regiment. Even. and St. James's Even. Posts.

Sunday last Mr. Wherry, one of the Custom-house Officers, seized at Woolwich, from a mate belonging to an East-India Ship, small parcels of rough Diamonds and Rubies, supposed to be worth upwards of 1000l. and Yesterday they were carried to his Majesty's warehouse. Ibid.

Great disputes have risen amongst the relations of the late Mrs. Arabella Godfrey, touching the executive parts of that Lady's last Will and Testament. St. James's and Lond. Even. Posts.

Tuesday last died at his house in the Minories, Mr. Dodson, reckoned worth 300,000l. St. James's Even. 40,000l. Lond. Even.

On sunday last was married at Hesson, near Hounslow in Middlesex, M. St. Andre, (the famous Surgeon) to Lady Betty Molineux, of Kew-Green in Surrey, Relict of Sam. Molineux, Esq; and sister to the Earl of Essex. Lond. Even.

This famous Surgeon shewed his extraordinary skill at she labours of the Godalmin Rabbit-breeder.

Mrs. Lavinia Berwick, commonly called Miss Fenton, who performed the part of Polly Peachum in the Beggar's Opera with mighty applause, is gone to her house in Windsor Forest, to lye in of her 2d Child. St. James's Evening.

We hear that a marriage is treating between the Hon. Sum. Massam, Esq; only son and heir to the Lord Massam, and Miss Trevor, only child to the Hon. Rob. Trevor, eldest son to the L. Trevor, President of the Council. Lond. Evening.

On monday the Duke of Boston's horse Fox-hunter won the King's Plate of 100 Guineas at Marrow Downs, near Guildford; 3 others started, and the Lord Onslow's horse fell. and greatly hurt his rider. And yesterday the Earl of Portmore's Galloway Country Wench won the 20l. Galloway plate. Ibid.

They write from Honiton, that on thursday last Sir Wil. Yonge, Knight of the Bath, and one of the Lords of the Treasury, was unanimously re-elected Member of Parliament for that Borough. Lond Even.

Yesterday the Lord Visc. Torrington came to Town from his seat in Bedfordshire; and the same day was held a general council at St. James's. Even. Post.

Last sund. even. Mr. Steele, a Bodice-maker upon Clerkenwell-green, was robb'd by 1 foot-pad, of a watch and some money, near Copenhagen-house, in his way from Highgate. The villain first presented a pistol to his breast; upon which Mr. Steele knock'd him down with his cane: but he recovering himself, knock'd Mr. Steele down, and then fired his pistol off at him, but did not shoot him. Mr. Steele lies very dangerously ill of a wound on his head, which he received in the fray. The Even. and St. James's Even.

Last saturday 2 foot pads attack'd a Jeweller on the road over against Stubbing house, near Maidenhead-thicket, and having got him into the wood, robb'd him of the value of 26l. in Jewels, and other things: a hue and cry was raised after them, and they were pursued, but got off. St James's and Lond. Even.

There is a Treaty of marriage on foot between the Right Hon, the E. of Chesterfield, and Miss Edwards, daughter to the late ——— Edwards, Esq; of Soho-square, a Lady of a vast fortune, entirely at her own disposal. Lond. Even Post.

On tuesday Col. Charteris made a visit to Will. Morrice, Esq; high Bailiff of Westminster, at his lodgings in Holland-house, to treat with him about an ample delivery of the goods, chattels, and money, seized by him on account of his attainder of felony; the Col. being on the point of setting out for Aix la Chapelle. Ibid.

Monday night at an alehouse in Barbaby-street, one Marsh and one Eades, quarrelled in the nine-pin-ground: in the fray Eades fell, and received a blow against the top of a Post, behind his ear, and never spoke after, but lived till about 6 o'clock on tuesd. main. St. James's Evening.

Friday, May 22.

Yesterday at Guidhall before the L. C. J. Eyre, came on a trial between one Mr. Mence, Barber and Perriwig-maker, Plaintiff, and Mr. Goodwin, Victualler in Fleet-street, Def. for the latter's biting off the former's ear, and a verdict was given in behalf of the Plaintiff for 20l. damage, besides cost of suit. Courant.

Yesterday the Hon. Hen. Pelham, Esq; lately promoted to the office of Receiver and Paymaster General of and for all his Majesty's Guards, Garrisons, and Forces in Great Britain, &c. was re-chosen Knight of the Shire for Sussex. D. Post.

Saturday 3 persons took an apartment in an empty house in Rider's-court, by Leicester-fields: underneath it there is a wine vault, which they found means in 2 or 3 days to break into, and to carry off to the value of about 20l. worth of French wine; but diligent search is making after them. Ibid.

Yesterday Rob. Grosvenor, Esq; brother to Sir Rich. Grosvenor, Bar. was married at Windsor to Mrs. Warre, a Somersetshire Lady of 40,000l. fortune. D. Post.

We hear a treaty of marriage is on foot between his Grace the D. of Portland and the Lady Diana Spencer, daughter of the late E. of Sunderland, and sister to the present Earl. Post Boy.

Last mond. even, in the Drawing-room at St. James's, his Majesty was pleased to declare his intention of keeping the 11th of next month, being the day of his accession to the Throne, at Windsor. Ibid.

His R. H. the Prince of Wales has been pleased to constitute and appoint the R. H. the L. Hobart, to be Assay Master, or Tryer of the Tin belonging to his Royal Highness, in the Counties of Cornwal and Devon, with a salary of 200l. per ann. and Edw. Drake, Sam. Holditch, John Johns, and Charles Penneck, Esqs; to be Supervisors of the Tin blowing houses in the said Counties, with a salary of 80l. per ann each. Ibid.

Last week a patent pass'd the seals, constituting Dan. Dering, Esq; to be auditor to his Royal Highness the Prince for the Dutchy of Cornwall, in the room of Albemarle Bertie, Esq; The said Dan. Dering is not appointed Auditor General to the Prince, as mentioned in some Papers, that place being still vacant. Ibid.

Edw. Whitacre, Esq; Barrister at law, son to the late Serjeant of that name, is appointed by his R. Highness, Steward of the Royal manor of Kensington, in Surrey; which manor is a parcel of the Principality of Wales. Ibid.

On wedn. the Justices assembled at the Castle Tavern in Holborn, heard the information of a Barrister at Law against a Vintner, upon the statute of 2 Will. and Mary, that prohibits the sale of wine in bottles, or other measure than sealed pewter. The Justices agreed, that the Barrister was out in his Law; and that he had not read the statute of 4 and 5 of the same reign: so his evidence was not allowed, and the Vintner was discharged, to the no small mortification of all that were concern'd in the information. Ibid.

Yesterday in the Yard of one Mr. Walker, a Cow-keeper at Islington, a boy turning a grain cart, the horse ran the boy against the Well, and beat his nose off. The man servant ran to his assistance, and was thrown down, and run over; so that he died upon the Spot. Ibid.

Saturday, May 23.

The E. of Tankerville is about hiring a house on Sunning-hills in Windsor Forest, in order, as we hear, to revive the old English hospitality, by keeping open house during the stay of the Court at Windsor. Daily Post.

Col. Tho. Murray succeeds Col. Maurice Morgan, lately made Lieutenant-governor of the Isle of Wight, in the 3d of regiment of Guards. Capt. Mordaunt succeeds Col. Murray. Ibid.

We hear, that the Lady Isabella Finch is appointed one of the Ladies of the Bedchamber to the young Princesses. Ibid.

Wedn. night Mr. Serjeant Miller arrived at his house in Petersfield; and died there the next morning about 8. He was several years Member of Parliament for the said Borough, and one of the Barons of the Exchequer in Scotland. Ibid. He was seized, as is supposed, with a fit of an apoplexy. Courant.

Yesterday as one Mrs. West in White-chappel, was dancing her only child in her arms, to keep it quiet, she happened to strike it against a scale-beam, and cracked the skull, so that it died on the spot. Post Boy.

The same day a boy about 15 years of age was killed in White-chappel-road, by a coach wheel running over him. Ibid.

Wedn. last a servant going from Westminster towards Charing-cross on horseback, and leading another horse for his master to ride to the Review, which being somewhat unruly in leading, he struck him on his head with his whip; the horse reeled for some short time, and fell down, and died immediately: which the servant seeing, he left the other horse by him, and run away. Crafts-man.

Sund. night Mr. Smith, who kept the Roebuck Tavern in Bow-street, Covent-Garden, cut his throat; and on tuesday following died. British Journal.

On tuesd. Dr. Denn, Rect. of S. Leonard Shore-ditch, preached a sermon there, to a numerous audience, on The power of the Creator manifested in the vegetable kingdom, pursuant to the Will of the late Mr. Fairchild of Hoxton. The text was Consider the Lillies of the field, how they grow, &c. Lond. Journal.

On thurs. a hackney-coach was overturned near Brentford, thro' the carelessness of the coach-man, in which were 2 Women, servants to Miss Carteret and Miss Meadows, maids of honour to her Majesty: one had the misfortune to have her shoulder-bone disjointed, and the other's arm was broke. 4 Even. Posts.

Anne Christy, the fruit-woman, who was said to be trod to death by the Grenadiers horses, is like to live, but it is thought will loose her right eye. St. James's Ev.

Yesterday a person rashly attempting, for a wager, to lower himself, by the means of a rope, fastened to the Gallery of the Monument, to the bottom; before he had descended 12 yards, had the terrible misfortune, by the rope's breaking, to break his neck by the fall. Ibid.

Wedn. last his R. H. the Duke sat the last time for his picture to Mr. Aikman: who we hear, having finished with great success the pictures of all the R. family in one piece, is gone into the country for his health, being much indisposed. Lond Even.

This day his Grace the D. of Portland and the Lord Hunsdon set out together for Holland. London Even.

Monday, May 23.

To the Author of the Daily Post-boy.

SIR,

IN one of your Brethren's Performances yesterday [he means the Daily Post, May 22.] there were in 4 lines no less than 4 errors. The Paragraph runs thus. 'A Vault is building in Hammersmith Church-yard, for the Family of Rich. Robinson, Esq; of Blue-Green near the said Town, a daughter of whom is to be interred there.'

1. Mr. Robinson does not write himself Esq; nor is his name Richard, but John; the place where he lives is Brook Green, not Blue-Green; and his daughter was interred on Thursday night. Yours, &c. May 23. Post Boy.

His Majesty has been pleased to constitute and appoint Col. Charles Cockburn to be Lieutenant-governor of the Castle of Stirling, in the room of Thom. Lindsey, Esq; deceased. Daily Post.

Tuesday, May 23.

Yesterday Is. Broderick the school-master stood in the pillory at Ratcliff-cross, and was severely treated by the populace, notwithstanding there was a party of footguards there, to prevent disorders. The same morning he attempted to cut his throat in Newgate; but missed his wind-pipe. Post Boy.

His Majesty has been pleased to appoint his Grace Charles D. of St. Albans to be Governor of Windsor Castle, Constable and Keeper of the Parks, &c. in the room of the E. of Carlisle, Charles E. of Carlisle to be Warden and Chief Just. in Eyre of all his Majesty's forests, &c. beyond Trent, in the room of the E. of Harborough. Philip E. of Chesterfield is to be L. Steward of his Majesty's Houshold, in the room of the D. of Dorset. Daily Post.

On friday last his Excell. Gov. Belcher set out for Portsmouth, to embark there for his Government of New England. 4 Even. Posts.

At the election of a representative in Parliament for Weymouth and Melcomb Regis, in the room of Will. Betts, Esq; whose election was declared void; at the closing of the Poll on thursday the numbers were, for ——— Doddington, Esq; 132. Knox Ward, Esq; 55. Ibid.

This day the honourable Bapt. Leveson Gower, Esq; younger brother to the L. Gower, was married to Miss Anne Grosvenor, Sister to Sir Richard, a Lady of 30,000l. fortune. London Even.

Wednesday, May 27.

Wedn. last Dr. Exton Sayer was re-chosed a representative in Parliament for Totness: As was also, on Thurs. George Treby, Esq; for Clifton Hardness Dartmouth: and Sir Will Strickland for Scarborough. D. Jour.

His Majesty has been pleased to promote Dr. Edw. Synge; to the united Bishopricks of Consert and Hillimacdouagh in the kingdom of Ireland; vacant by the translation of Dr. Arthur Price, to the united Bishopricks of Leighlin and Ferns. D. Post.

Edingburgh, May 14. Tuesd. last died of a lingering sickness Al. Fowlis of Rotho, Esq; at his seat of Rotho, in Mid-Lothian, a kind, hospitable Gentleman, a loyal subject, and lover of his country. He has left one son. Courant.

By this Post came down the warrant of commutation of Browne, the Shoe-maker in Dumb-lane, his sentence of death into perpetual banishment; who is to be transported within 40 days. Post Boy.

This day the Gen. Assembly of this national Church met here, when his Grace his Majesty's H. Commissioner was attended to Church by a splendid company of Nobility and Gentry, and had an excellent sermon preached before him by the Rev. Mr. James Alston, Moderator to the last Assembly. The Assembly thereafter made choice of the Rev. Professor Hamilton for Moderator to the ensuing Assembly. D. Post.

From the Pegasus in Grub Street.

The Theobaldians, who had been driven out of the field the last Campaign by the publication of the Dunciad, opened this, at the beginning of this month, with the publication of One Epistle to Mr. A. Pope. An Abstract of the Contents of the Preface to this Epistle, sent us by a Popeian, was published in our Journal, Numb. 19, May 14. In the Daily Journal of May 16, was published the following Epigram by a Theobaldian.

 Of all thy short-liv'd Progeny, this last

Has met with harder Trials, than the past.

With rueful Eyes thou view'st thy wretched Race;

The Child of Guilt, and destin'd to Disgrace!

 Thus when fam'd Joan usurp'd the Pontiff's Chair,

With Terror she beheld her new-born Heir:

Ill-starr'd, ill-favour'd into Birth it came;

In Sin begotten, and brought forth with Shame!

It vain it breathes, a lewd abandon'd Hope!

And calls in vain th'unhallow'd Father, Pope.

We should be glad to hear the names of Mr. Pope's short liv'd Progeny, all those children whom he owns being, to our sorrow, alive and in good health: we likewise desire to know what the Epigrammatist means by a lewd abandon'd hope.

In our last of May 21. N. 20. we offered a reward to any person who would attest the truth of any of those Facts, there mentioned, and which had been charged upon Mr. Pope in the One Epistle, &c. To which we have hitherto received no Answer. But instead of it, in the Daily Journal May 23. there is a complaint against us for publishing in our last Journal, [which is false, for it was our last but one,] the Contents of the Preface abovementioned: Wherein they charge us with saying that one of the Authors is the Son of a W———. In our Journal there is no more than the Son of a ———, the W——— is added by the complainant himself, no doubt upon good reasons.

The Observation about the Genealogy of the 3 Gentlemen, was not, we imagin'd, levell'd against the merit of the Poem, but against the Appellation of Gentle-men, which the Authors had assumed in the Preface. We beg the favour of the Gentleman who wrote the Letter in the Daily Journal, to write his next in plain English: for we could not apprehend what he meant by charging us with pouring out a lying Spirit upon the Genealogy of the supposed Writers of the One Epistle.

The Popeians, have sent us the following Epigrams.

 Moore goes two years, and then alas produces,

Some noisy, pert dull, flatulent Abuses.

So some stale, swoln-out Dame, you sometimes find,

Has been at last deliver'd but of———Wind.

 To prove himself no Plagiary, Moore,

Has writ such stuff, as none e'er writ before.

Thy prudence, Moore, is like that Irish Wit,

Who shew'd his breech, to prove 'twas not besh———

* * *

FOREIGN NEWS.

Thursday, May 21.

Yesterday arriv'd the Mail due from France.

Madrid, May 9, N. S. Our last letters from Majorca advise, that a Genoese Pink, taken by the Corsairs of Barbary, with 52 hands clapt on board, having cast anchor within sight of Port Mahon, the Spanish Cap. James Planells, commonly called The Cid, in a small vessel, with only 13 men and a Cabin boy, attacked her with so much bravery, that he made himself master of her, after a fight of 3 hours, wherein 15 men were killed, and 37 made slaves, without the loss of one Spaniard. Cour.

Venice, May 12. We have received an account, that a Mountain in the Country of Cadorino, bordering upon that of Bellunese, divided asunder last week, and buried a Village of about 30 houses at the foot of it; whereby it is computed, that upward of 60 persons lost their lives. And moreover the current of a Rivulet, that emptied it self into the river Piave, being stopt by this accident, began to form a lake. Even. Post, and St. James's Evening.

Saturday, May 23.

Extract of a letter from Madrid.

The King lives in such a manner at present, near Granada, as if he had a mind lay aside all the trappings, and incumbrances of Royalty, and taste for a while the tranquillity and sweets or a private and rural life. The Palace where he now resides is no other than a keeper's lodge in a large forest, within 2 leagues of the City of Granada: which forest belongs to his Majesty; nor is there any village near it; the Place is called Soto di Roma; adjoining to the lodge there is a Barn, a Milk-house, and 2 or 3 other ordinary buildings, which upon some occasions might serve for the reception of horses or asses, but at present the officers of the King's houshold, and such attendants as are absolutely necessary about him, take up with them, or as we say, Pig in there.———The Marq. de laz Paz, Secretary of State, keeps his office in a Peasant's house, 3 quarters of a league from the said Palace, in the apartment where the Peasant lies, and the Under-secretary and Clerks have some benches and boards nailed up in an adjoining Cow-house, (or Ass-house, for I won't determine which) for the dispatch of business.———This may appear a little Romantick, but the thing is really true, for the King sees no Company. Fog's Journal.

Monday, May 25.

Yesterday arrived the Mails due from France and Holland.

Constantinople, Apr. 9. N.S. We have here a relation of Prince Thomas's triumphant entry into Ispahan, after the total defeat of Sultan Esreff, and the reduction of the said Capital. Courant.

Madrid, May 9. They write from Barcelona, that the late D. of Wharton, who had been some time under confinement in the fort of Montjou, was discharged the 25th past. Ibid.

Berlin, May 23. On the 19th the Princess Charlotte, his Prussian Majesty's 3d daughter, was betrothed to the Prince of Brunswick Beveren. This day, between 11 and 12, the Queen was happily delivered of a Prince. Post Boy.

Paris, May 25. They write from Burgundy, that a Highway-man in a priest's habit overtook a Woman, that had been at Dijon to receive money, and threaten'd to murder her if she did not deliver it. She had sewed it in the tail of her gown, to rip which the Highwayman lent her his dagger: but she watched the critical minute, and while he was attentively stooping to help her rip the gown, sheathed the poniard in his heart. Ibid.

On Tuesday Stocks were

South-Sea 103 1 qr. South Sea Annuity 106 3 8ths. Bank 141 1 qr. Bank Circulation 7 l. 12 s. 6 d. Premium. India 190. Three per Cent. Annuity 96 3 8ths. Royal Assurance 93. London Assurance 12 1 8th. York Buildings 19. African 43. English Copper 3 l. 10 s. Welch ditto 1 l. 3 s. 10 s. South Sea Bonds 4 l. 7 s. Premium. India ditto 5 l. 4 s. ditto.

Prices of Goods at Bear Key on Monday.

per Quarter

Wheat 30 to 32

Rye 22 to 25

Barley 22 to 26

Oats 13 to 16

Horse Beans 25 to 28

Hog Peas 22 to 25

Boiling Peas 26 to 30

Pale Malt 26 to 28

Brown Malt 23 to 26

Tares 20 to 22

Coals 22 s. to 25 s. per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 25 s. to 39 s. per Hundred.

Hops 1729 39 s. to 55 s. per Hundred.

Rape Seed 15 l. to 16 l. per last.

The Course of the Exchange.

Amsterdam 34 6

Ditto at Sight 34 4 a 3

Rotterdam 34 7

Antwerp 35 1

Hamburgh 33

Paris at Sight 32 7 8ths

Bourdeaux at sight 32 1 half

Cadiz 42 1 half a 3 8ths

Madrid 42 3 qrs. a 5 8ths

Bilboa 42 1 half a 3 8ths

Leghorn 51 1 half

Genoa 54 1 half

Venice 49

Lisbon 5s. 6d. 3 8ths

Porto 5s. 5d. 5 8ths

Dublin 11 3 4ths

* * *

To the Worthy Livery-Men of the City of LONDON.

Gentlemen,

YOUR Vote and Interest are humbly desired for

HENRY RAPER, Esq;

Citizen and Painter-Stainer;

AND

JAMES CHAMBERS, Esq;

Citizen and Goldsmith;

To be Sheriffs of this City and County of Middlesex, for the Year ensuing; who are the Two foremost in the List of those Gentlemen that for many Years past have been nominated by several Lord Mayors to serve that Office.

N.B. It has been unanimously resolved in Common-Council, that for the future all Sheriffs Fines shall be appropriated ONLY towards building a Mansion-House for the Lord Mayor, so much wanted to support the Honour and Dignity of this Great City.

* * *

ADVERTISEMENTS.

Speedily will be published,

Number II.

[To be continued.]

AN Author to be Lett: Being a History of the past and present Transactions of the Members of the Bathos: In which will be fully and faithfully delineated the character of that modest, ingenious, tall, young Man Jemmy Moore Smythe. By Iscarios Hackney.

We, being neither Scholars, Doctors, nor Divines, call our selves Gentlemen; which sure no body will deny, because one of us the Son of a Footman, One, &c.

Grub street Journal, No 19.

N.B. Soon after will also be published, The Gentlemen of the Dunciad. A Poem. By Mr. Savage, with a Preface.

Printed for L. Gilliver, at Homer's Head against St. Dunstan's Church, Fleet-street.

* * *

Just published,

TWO Epistles to Mr. Pope concerning the Authors of the Age. And the Merchant; on Trade, Navigation and Peace. Designed to give a new but just Idea, of the Pindaric Ode, and to shew the Scripture Style of the Prophets, highly proper for it. Dedicated to the Duke of Chandos.

Both by the Author of the Universal Passion.

Printed for Lawton Gilliver at Homer's Head against St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet-street.

* * *

Just published,

TWO Epistles to Mr. Pope concerning the Authors of the Age. And the Merchant; on Trade, Navigation and Peace. Designed to give a new but just Idea, of the Pindaric Ode, and to shew the Scripture Style of the Prophets, highly proper for it. Dedicated to the Duke of Chandos.

Both by the Author of the Universal Passion.

Printed for Lawton Gilliver at Homer's Head against St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet-street.

* * *

Just published,

AN Anatomical and Mechanical Essay on the whole Animal Oeconomy in one View: wherein will be shewn the most wonderful Conduct of Nature, in all the Phænomena attending Human Bodies, with many curious subjects not commonly treated of. Necessary for all Lovers of Knowledge, particularly young Students in Anatomy, Physick and Surgery. With an Alphabetical Catalogue of Authors Names referred to on several Occasions in the foregoing Treatise.

By JOHN COOK, Student in Physick, and late of the College of Edinburgh.

Τὰ ἀπαντα συμπνῶν κὶ συροῦν. Hippoc.

Ad causam ipsam & causæ occasionem & primordia deveniendum est. Hippoc. De Virg. Morb.

Qui parum docti satis seduli multos ægros officiocissime occisunt. Hippoc. L. 2. Epist. Sect. 4.

Printed for W. Meadows at the Angel in Cornhil.

* * *

This Day is published,

Printed on a superfine Paper, in two Volumes in Quarto,

SOME Observations made in travelling through France, Italy, &c. in the Years 1720, 1721 and 1722: Containing a large and particular Account of the most remarkable Curiosities in those Countries, as well such as relate to their Manners, Customs, religious Orders, Ceremonies, &c. as likewise of their Architecture, Paintings, Sculpture, and other Antiquities, which are esteemed most worthy of the Observation of an English Traveller. With some short Remarks on the Air, Soil, Productions, Trade, Manufactures at several Places, occasionally interspersed. By Edward Wright, Esq; illustrated with 40 curious Drawings, design'd upon the Spot by the Author, and engrav'd on Copper by the best Hands.

Printed for Messieurs Ward and Wicksteed in the Inner Temple Lane.

* * *

Just published,

THE Law against Bankrupts: Or, a Treatise wherein the Statutes against Bankrupts are explained by several Cases, Resolutions, Judgments, and Decrees, both at Common-Law, and in Chancery. Together with the Learning of Declarations and Pleadings relating thereunto. To which are likewise added, Forms and Directions for Commissioners, and Precedents fit for the perusal of all Lawyers, Merchants and Tradesmen.

Sic utere tuis, ut aliena non Lædas.

The fifth Edition. To which is not added, An Appendix of all the Statutes relating to Bankrupts, to the Year 1725. By Tho. Goodinge, Serjeant at Law. Printed by E. and R. Nutt, and R. Gosling, (Assigns of Edward Sayer, Esq;) for F. Cogan, at the Middle-Temple Gate Fleet-street.

* * *

Just published,

PROPOSALS for Printing by Subscription, a beautiful and correction Edition of ROBERTI STEPHANI Thesaurus Lingue Latinæ. Compared with the best Editions of the Classics, the References adjusted and supplied by J. MARTYN, F.R.S., and the whole corrected and revised from the Press by R. RUSSEL, M.A.

The great Usefulness of this Work having render'd it scarce (tho' it has passed four Impressions) that the best Edition is now sold for at least sixteen Pounds, it is presumed that the Re-printing of it, with these Improvements, will be very acceptable to all the Learned in Europe.

This Work is to be printed from the last Edition (printed at Lyons, containing 653 Sheets, divided into four Tomes) and will be rendered much more useful, by citing not only the Books but Chapters of the Prose Authors, and even the Lines of the Poets; which being adapted to the improved Editions of the Classics, we doubt not will be as agreeable to the Studious, as laborious to the Editors.

It will be printed in the same Manner, and on as good Paper, as the Specimen annexed to the Proposals.

The Price to Subscribers will be six Guineas a Sett in Sheets; only one to be paid down, two on the Delivery of the first Volume (which will contain about 170 Sheets) and one more for each of the other three Volumes.

Some Copies will be printed on a larger Paper for the Curious, at nine Guineas a Sett in Sheets; two to be paid down, two for the first Volume, two for the second, one for the third, and two for the last.

As soon as 200 are subscribed for, the Work shall be put to Press.

The Names and Titles of the Subscribers will be prefixed to the first Volume.

When the Subscription is closed, the Price will be raised to eight Guineas for the small Paper, and twelve the large.

Receipts for the Subscription-Money are signed by all the Proprietors, which they will pay into the Hands of Francis Child, Esq; Alderman, and return it to the Subscribers by Christmas next, if there is not sufficient Encouragement.

Subscriptions are taken in by the Editors; and J. Ratley, at the Dove in Pater-Noster Row; A. Vandenhoeck, at Virgil's Head, over-against the New Church in the Strand; F. Cogan, at the Middle-Temple-Gate, Fleet-Street; and by the Printers, S. Palmer and J. Huggonson, in Bartholomew-close.

* * *

Just publish'd,

THE Female Parson; or, Beau in the Sudds. An Opera, as it is acted at the New Theatre in the Hay-market. By Mr. Charles Coffey, Author of the Beggar's Wedding.

Printed for Fran. Cogan, at the Middle-Temple-gate in Fleet-street, and Lawton Gillver over against St. Dunstan's Church. Price one Shilling.

* * *

On the 12th of June next will be published,

NUMB. IV. (for the Month of June) of the

General History of Printing,

by S. Palmer, Printer.

* * *

This Day is Published,

[Price Four Pence.]

A General History of Executions, Numb. III

(To be continued.)

BEING a full Account of the four four following Malefactors executed at Tyburn, May 12, 1730, viz. Abraham Israel, a Jew, and David Aubert, a Swiss, for robbing their Masters. Thomas Williams, for House-breaking. James Dalton, the audacious Street-robber, House-breaker, Foot-pad, Pick-pocket, &c. With an ample Relation of his Life and Adventures, his Pranks, Thefts, and Robberies, both by Sea and Land, abroad and at home, during the Space of above twenty Years, from ten Years of Age to his Death. Also of Hugh Houghton, condemned for robbing the Bristol-Mail, who hang'd himself in Newgate, with his Handkerchief and Belt. Printed by R. Newton, at St. John's-Gate, and sold by the Booksellers in Town and Country.

Where may be had, Price 4d each,

Numb. I. containing the Life of Everett, a noted Highwayman, of Goodburn, a Poet, and of two other Malefactors.

Numb. II. containing an Account of five Malefactors, and a Description of a large Gang of Thieves and Cheats, which infest at Times all parts of the Kingdom; of great Use to Officers of Parishes, and private Persons, for guarding against and detecting the said Rogues.

Note, This Work meeting with Encouragement will be continued every Sessions, and the Numbers regularly published soon after the execution, and will contain an Account of the Criminals executed and transported throughout England, in order to make a compleat Volume at the Year's End, when a general Index will be given for that Purpose.

* * *

Books printed and sold by John Brotherton at the Bible in Cornhill.

Life of Oliver Cromwel, 8vo.

Collection of Novels, 12mo, 6 Vol.

D'Ano's Tales of the Fairies, 3 Vol. 12mo.

Free Thoughts on Religion.

Pilgrim's Progress in 8vo, with Cuts, 2 Vol.

Spectators, 8 Vol.

Prideaux Connection, 4 Vol.

Musical Misc. 4 Vol. 8vo.

The Dancing Master, by Mr. John Essex, 4to.

Boyer's Telemachus, 12mo.

Gay's Fables, 8vo.

Gordon's Geog. Gammar.

Boyer's Dictionary in 4to, or 8vo.

Blais's Sermons, 5 Vol. 8vo.

Shakespear's Plays.

Addison's Works, 4 Vol.

Lockyer's Trade to India

Abelard's Letters

Garth's Ovid, 2 Vol.

Plutarch's Lives, 8 Vol.

Don Quixot, 2 Vol.

Guardians, 2 Vol.

Ovid's Epistles

Dryden's Virgil.

* * *

This Day is Publish'd

THE LIFE of the Right Rev. Dr. White Kennett, late Lord Biship of Peterborough; with several original Letters of the late Archibishop of Canterbury, Dr. Tennison; the late Earl of Sunderland; Bishop Kennett, &c. and some curious original Papers and Records, never before published. And also

The Foreigner's Guide: Or, a necessary and instructive Companion, both for the Foreigner and Native, in their Tour through the Cities of London and Westminster. Givin,

1st. A general Description of these two Cities, with an Account of their respective Government.

2dly. A Description of the Royal Palaces, Noblemens Houses, publick Buildings, Churches, Streets, Squares, and the most remarkable Places in and near the famous Metropolis: With an Account of the Inns of Court, Royal Society, publick Walks, Diversions, remarkable Days, Court Days, Post Days. And,

3dly. A Description of the several villages in the Neighbourhood; as Chelsea, Kensington, Richmond, Greenwich, Woolwich, Hampstead; and also others more remote, viz. Hampton-Court, Windsor, Oxford, Cambridge, Blenheim, New-Market Horse Races, Epson, Tunbridge, Bath. And,

4thly. An Account of the Rates of Coaches, Watermen; and also the Rates of Post Horses; with the Roads to Dover and Harwich.

Very useful and entertaining both to Foreigner and Native, and done into English and French.

Where may be had,

LOVE LETTERS on all Occasions, lately passed between Persons of Distinction. Collected by Mrs. Eliza. Haywood,

Pleasure with Sorrow, Peace with War allay'd,

Liberty fetter'd, Hope by Fear dismay'd;

Imbitter'd Honey, Earnest mix'd with Play,

Are, Love! the Emblems of thy sov'reign Sway.

Printed for, and sold by Francis Cogan, at the Middle Temple Gate in Fleet-street.

* * *

LONDON: Printed for Capt. Gulliver and F. Cogan near the Temple, Mr. Jackson in Pall-Mall, and J. Brotherton near the Exchange, and Sold by J. Roberts in Warwick-Lane, where Letters and Advertisements, &c. are taken in. [Price Two Pence.]

