The Grub-street Journal — February 5th, 1730

Exported from Wikisource on May 11, 2026

Lightly corrected.

* * *

Numb. V.

The Grub-street Journal.

* * *

Thursday, FEBRUARY 5. 1730.

* * *

Some free from rhyme or reason, rule or check,

Break Priscian's head, and Pegasus's neck;

Down, down they larum, with impetuous whirl,

The Pindars, and the Miltons of a Curl. Dunciad, B. III.

A Continuation of the Essay on Miltonic Verse.

BUT it is not my design in this letter to discourse concerning Imitation in general, that subject having been already judiciously handled by the learned Scriblerus, in the 9th Chapter of his excellent Treatise περὶ βάθεο. My present intention is to shew, how Milton ought to be treated; who, although a vehement Parnassian, may nevertheless, without much difficulty, be imitated into the most profound Grubbism. This may be done, either by copying him in those things, which the vulgar reckon his imperfections; or by making use of his sublime style to express a profound sentiment.

A frequency of digressing is one thing, which has been imputed to him as a fault, by bad Judges. In this excellency none has succeeded more happily than Mr. Ralph, who has judiciously made almost his whole Poem called Night, a continual Digression from the Title. In this Poem, after due Invocation, and promising his Patroness Contemplation, that if she will deign her favour to his Muse, his grateful song shall resound her praise,

With dulcet Musick, and attune the hours

Of sleep and silence with melodious lays;

he begins his Poem with telling us, that when the Sun goes down, Night arises, and then it is either dark, or star-light, or perhaps moon-light. Mean while (that is, as I take it, in the space of one Night)

———revolving time with restless toil,

Thro' all the seasons turns the circling year.

And so he brings in Spring, which, he says, brightens the day. In the beginning of spring there is rough weather, but afterwards milder, and then the stamen hoist their willing sails. In the midst of this Digression about Spring comes in another, which consists of no less than 31 lines. In this beautiful Digression, our Author makes a couple of Lovers meet in a Grove, where they sit, and look, and sigh, and so their sprightly thoughts with gladsome prospects form. He entertains them all the while with aerial Musick, and the dancing of Fairies, who vanish at the approach of a Shower. Having described this Shower, our Poet says no more of the Lovers; and leaves us in doubt whether passion was cooled by the rain; or they themselves vanished along with the Fairies. Having dispatched the spring, he lets us know, that night comes on in summer; and in the third book in autumn too. In this book he digresses beautifully to tell us, that in autumn there is an old ruined Castle near Newbury, which formerly was Chaucer's seat; and that a great battle was fought near it. It would have added to the beauty of this Digression, if our Poet had carried it on farther, and told us, that there had like to have been another battle at Newbury, at the time of the Revolution. This might have introduced the whole History of that glorious change; and been brought down to the blessings we enjoy under the auspicious Government of his present Majesty.

Another method of imitating Milton is to make use of antiquated words, and such as are no where else to be met with, such as dulcet, gelid, umbrageous, redolent, &c, without abundance of such words as these, a Poem will never be esteemed truly Miltonic.

I shall give one instance among many of Milton's very words being converted to Profundity, from your great Dennis. In the Poem entitled Il Penseroso, Milton has these words;

Oft on a Plat of rising ground,

I hear the far-off Curfeu sound,

Over some wide-water'd shoar,

Swinging slow with sullen roar.

This has been admired by the injudicious, as being natural: but you will agree with me, I dare say, that Nature is not to be imitated, but mended. Mr. Dennis, no doubt, thought so, when he composed that fine Apostrophe to the River Danube, in his Blenheim;

Thou, like a Bittern, thro' thy doleful Reeds

Complain'dst in sullen and in moody Groans,

Expressing manly Sorrow mix'd with Rage;

While thy brown Billows sounding on thy Shore,

And swinging slow with hoarse and sullen Roar,

Kept murmuring Consort to thy threatning Moan.

It was natural, indeed, to speak of the swinging of a bell, as Milton did: but truly poetical to speak of the swinging of the billows of a River; and far above the imagination of one who had been used to live by a River side, and had no Idea of the motion of its Billows, above what meer nature had conveyed to him.

But it will not be enough, in a Poem of this kind, to confine our selves wholly to the Imitation of Milton. We should also add the Beauties of other Authors; and place Grubæan Ornaments in the room of such as are Parnassian. It is a constant rule with the Parnassians, to begin their Epick Poems in a low, unmoving manner: but a true Grubæan will begin at once in a lofty strain, like that great Antient;

Fortunam Priami cantabo & nobile bellum;

whom Mr. Dennis has so happily imitated in his Poem on the Battle of Ramellies;

I sing the triumph of that wondrous Field,

Which rais'd the Fame of pious Anna's Reign

Above the Glory of great Henry's Days,

And equall'd Marlbro' to heroick Chiefs,

In Nature's youth and happier Climates born.

When I read that incomparable Poem, I can scarce forbear thinking, that Mr. Dennis has got in his possession the whole Poem of that noble Author, of which we know only the first Verse cited above.

The Grubæan figures have been treated of so largely by the learned Scriblerus, that I must refer to his incomparable discourse on the Profund, where they are spoken of at large, with great Perspicuity. I shall only beg leave to produce examples of two of the chief of them; the Hyperbole, and the Anticlimax. For the first, let us cite the never-enough extolled Mr. John Dennis;

Awak'd, he rises from his bed in haste,

And after him in haste the Sun arose,

Impatient to behold his wondrous deeds.

Ramell.

For the latter let us cite Mr. Thompson;

Thus struggling thro' the dissipated Grove,

The whirling tempest raves along the Plain;

And on the Cottage thatcht, or lordly Dome,

Keen fastening, shakes them to the solid Base.

Sleep frighted flies; the hollow Chimney howls,

The Windows rattle, and the hinges creak.

Winter.

And Mr. Ralph;

 Where eager, hot,

Impetuous, fierce, he gives up all the rein,

And spurs his Courser o'er the dang'rous Brook,

 The thorny hedge, regardless if th' event,

And pants and sweats and toils along the trembling green.

Muses address to the King.

It must needs be an agreeable surprize to the Reader, when his imagination is raised by the impetuosity and fierceness of the King, to expect some terrible adventure, to find that his Majesty is exposed to no greater danger, than that of leaping over a brook and a hedge.

I could add many more observations on this subject; but I fear I have already transgressed the bounds of a letter: so I shall beg leave, after wishing Prosperity to your illustrious Society, to subscribe my self

your admirer and obliged,

though unknown,

humble servant.

* * *

LONDON.

Thursday, Jan. 29. On monday last, came on the Election for a Member of Parliament for the City of Winchester and on casting up the books, the Poll stood thus, Norton Pawlet, Esq; 46. Pawlet St. John, Esq; 40. Post Boy.

The Daily Post, Journal, and Whitehall Evening have Norton Powlet, jun. Esq; and Powlet St. John, Esq; The Morning Post, Mr. St. John; and St. James's Evening, Ellis St. John, Esq;

Last week came on the Election for Appleby in Westmoreland; when Walt. Plomer, Esq; was chosen. D. Post, Whitehall and Lond. Even.

On monday last John Sheppard, Esq; was unanimously elected a Representative for the Borough of Ipswich in Suffolk. Morn. Post, Whitehall Ev.

An Appeal is lodged with the Archbishop of Canterbury by John Anstis, jun. Garter King at Arms, against the Warden and Fellows of All Souls Cost. Oxen. for not admitting him an actual Fellow at their late Election. Courant, Daily Post, and 4 Evening Posts.

The Shares of the new. Bridge at Fulham of 1000 l. each, of which 740 l. only is paid, now sell for 1000 Guineas a Share. Post Man

Yesterday Steph. Waldron of Wiltshire, Esq; was married to Miss Wimbleton, a young Lady of the same County, of 15000 l. Fortune. Post Boy, the Evening, and London Evening Posts.

A few days since a Woman, near 80 years of age, who has begged alms in Ironmonger-lane in Cheapside, for above 15 years, was married to a Barber of 84 years, in the said lane: and since her marriage, she has carried her spouse to her own Lodging, which was exceedingly well furnished; and she has since acknowledged her self worth 3000 l. Post Boy, the Evening, and Whitehall Evening Posts.

Last week died the Rev. Dr. Grandorge, Fellow of Magdalen Cost, Oxon. and Prebendary of Canterbury. He was above 30 years Chaplain to the late Earl of Thanet, whose example he followed in acts of Charity and Goodness: having left by his will to the aforesaid College 300 l.. for buying perpetual advowsons; 500 l. to the Church of Canterbury, for repairs and ornaments; and 500 l. to the Corporation of the Sons of the Clergy, to be distributed among the Daughters of poor Clergy-men; with many other charitable legacies. The 4 Evening Posts.

The Lady Betty Mollineux, Relict of the late Hon. Sum. Mollineux, Esq; and Sister to the Earl of Essex, having purchased an estate of 400 l. per An. at Chepstow, on the river Severn, is going to reside there. The Evening, St. James's and London Evening Posts.

Yesterday the Right Hon. the Earl of Sussex, Deputy Earl Marshal of England, came to the College of Arms, and created Steph. Martin Leake, Esq; late Lancaster Herald, to be Norroy King of Arms, in the room of Peter le Neve, Esq; deceased. Daily Post, the Evening, St. James's, and London Evening Posts.

By a letter from Florence we learn, that Francis Colman, Esq; his Britannic Majesty's Resident, had, at the request of Mr. Robinson and his Lady, caused a person to be seised there, on a violent suspicion of being Henry Fisher, who murdered Mr. Darby. He said at first his name was Whitehead, and his Father a Merchant in Bristol; but afterwards denied it. The 4 Evening Posts.

By letters from New-England we learn, that the Rev. Dean Berkley, who went to Bermudas to found a College there, has bought a farm at Rhode-Island, and is there settled. Ibid.

On monday evening Mr. Wilford, a Butcher of Islington, and his Wife, were robbed in a Hackney Coach near Islington Turnpike, by 2 Footpads, who took from them 3 l. 1s. 6d. and his Shoes and large silver Buckles. The Evening, St. James's, and Whitehall Evening Posts.

Friday, Jan. 30. Yesterday about 2, the House of Lords waited on his Majesty with an humble address of thanks, for his great care in procuring the peace, to which he was pleased to make the following most gracious Answer:

'My Lords, I am glad the Treaty which I have, in conjunction with my Allies, concluded with Spain, is so entirely to your satisfaction. By a punctual execution of our mutual engagements, we shall establish a firm and lasting friendship with that Crown, which will be of great advantage to the Trade and Navigation of this Kingdom.' Post Boy, D. Post.

Yesterday the ancient and honourable Society of free and accepted Masons attended the right honourable the Lord Kingston, their late Grand Master, to his Grace the Duke of Norfolk's (the Grand Master elect) in St. James's square; from whence they went in procession in their coaches, with their white aprons and gloves, to Merchant Taylors hall, where they had a very elegant dinner provided by the 12 Stewards. After dinner, his Grace was confirmed the Grand Master for the year ensuing; and afterwards chose Nathaniel Blackerby, Esq; his Deputy Grand Master, and the hon. Col Carpenter and Tho. Batson, Esq; his Grand Wardens. There was a very grand appearance of Nobility and persons of distinction, and the whole was conducted with the greatest order and regularity. D. Post, &c.

Yesterday Dr. Wilmot, Dr. Goldsmith, and Mr. Miller of Chelsea, the latter of whom is well known to the Curious in Botany and Gardening, were admitted Fellows of the Royal Society. Post Boy.

On tuesday morning died at Charlton in Wiltshire, the seat of his Son-in-law the Earl of Berkshire, Col. James Graham. He was Privy Purse to K. James II. and Knight of the Shire in the last Parliament for the County of Westmoreland. D. Post, &c.

The Cause between the right hon. Edw. Southwest, Esq; his Majesty's principal Secretary of State for Ireland, and ——— Nicholas, Esq; of Shaftsbury, relating to the estate in Spring-gardens, Charing-cross, has been determined in favour of the former. Ibid.

Last wednesday Mr. Brian Fairfax was robbed in Grovesnor-street in New Bond-street, by 4 Street robbers, of his gold watch, 7 guineas, and some silver. Post Boy.

Saturday, Jan. 31. His Majesty was pleased on tuesday last to sign a warrant constituting the Rev. Dr. Arthur Ashley Sykes, Dean of Burien in Cornwal, in the room of Dr. Harris, Bishop of Landaff. Courant.

Yesterday being the anniversary fast for the martyrdom of K. Charles I. the Bishop of Bristol preached before the House of Lords, Dr. Croxal before the House of Commons, and Dr. Trapp before the Lord Mayor and Aldermen. Ibid.

On wednesday last a Sollicitor in Chancery was committed by the Lord Chancellor, for artful delays, to the prejudice of his Client's cause. Ibid.

Mr. Frederick du Pless, committed to Newgate about 5 weeks since, for publishing A Letter to a Member of Parliament in the North, was ordered at the last Sessions at the Old Bailey, to be referred for Bail; which is to be taken by one of the Secretaries of State. Ibid.

On tuesday, the election for Durham ended, when the numbers stood thus; John Shaftoe, Esq; 579. Hen. Lambton, Esq; 488. Daily Post, Evening Post.

The Daily Journ. St. James and Whitehall Evening, say, that the 27th [tuesday] the Poll stood thus: Mr. Shaftoe of Whitworth 390. Mr. Lambton of Lambton 322.

The Morning Post says, the Election was not ended on tuesday; and adds, That Mr. Lambton, it is thought, will not carry it, tho' he has the interest which used to prevail, namely, the Bishop's.

The same day came on the election for Scarborough; the Candidates were Mr. Thompson and Mr. Robinson, but the latter declining, Mr. Thompson was declared duly elected. Daily Journal.

Thursday evening 3 footpads robbed Dr. Thorold of Uxbridge, a little below Shepard's bush, of his watch and sword; and cut his nose and face in a most cruel and barbarous manner.

Last wednesday night, about 10, Mr. Helm, living near Queenhith, was robbed of 23s. 6d. in the passage from Pater-noster-row to St. Paul's Church-yard. St. James's Evening.

Monday, Feb. 2. His Majesty has been pleased to grant to the Rev. Dr. Tho. Gooch, a prebend in the Church of Canterbury, void by the death of Dr. John Grandorge. Courant, &c.

Last tuesday Philip Broke, of Nacton, Esq; was chosen Member of Parliament for Ipswich in Suffolk, by a Majority of 61, from John Sheppard, Esq; notwithstanding what has been inserted in other papers. P. Boy.

The D. Journal gives the numbers on each side thus, Philip Broke, Esq; 286. John Sheppard, Esq; 237.

Tuesday, Feb. 3. Yesterday one of the Messengers belonging to the House of Commons, delivered summons to all the Judges, and Masters in Chancery, requiring them to deliver in Lists of the names of the several Attorneys they have allowed, according to the late Act of Parliament in that case made and provided. Post Boy.

Yesterday a great many workmen were sent down to Windsor, to repair and beautify Windsor Castle, and to make several new alterations, for the reception of their Majesties, who intend to spend part of the summer at that Palace. Daily Post.

On thursday morning ended the Poll for Durham, when the numbers were thus; for John Shafto, Esq; 579. for Hen. Lambton, Esq; 555, whereupon the former was declared duly elected. Morning Post.

Conradt Furst, alias Freeburn, that robb'd Dr. Douglas's house in Covent Garden Piazza, who made his escape out of Goal, but was since taken in Cornwall, was last saturday brought up to Newgate. The Evening Post.

On sunday last died at Greenwich Dr. Rich. Morton an eminent Physitian. The 4 Evening Posts.

Wednesday, Feb. 4. Yesterday Sir John Eyles, Bart. was chosen Sub-governor, and John Hanbury, Esq; Deputy-Governor, of the South Sea Company, Courant.

The Numbers stood thus. For Sir John Eyles, 1342. John Hanbury, Esq; 1419. John Rudge, Esq; 821. Sir Richard Hopkins, 730. Post Boy.

Yesterday at a Board at the Admiralty Office, Whitehal, Dr. Peter Jourmeau was appointed to be Physician of Greenwich Hospital; in the room of Dr. Morton deceas'd. The place is reckon'd worth 200 l. per ann. Ibid.

The same day died Urban Hall, Esq; at his house at Clapham. It is said he left an Estate worth 200,000 l. ibid.

There was collected Yesterday, at the Rehearsal for the Feast of the Sons of the Clergy at S. Pauls, from the Ladies present 114 l. 7 s. to put out Daughters of poor Clergy-men. D. Journal.

The Post Boy of Jan. 30. informs us, that Mr. Freeman Cur. of S. Botolph's Aldersgate, communicated to him the following Epitaph, upon a Monument on the south side of the Chancel there, which he could not find in Stow, Weever, or Le Neve.

Hic conjunta suo recuba: Francisca marito;

 Et cinis est unus, que suit una caro.

Huc cineres conferre suos Sorer Anna jubebat;

 Corpora sic uno pulvere trina jacent.

Ille Opifex rerum omnipotens, qui Trinus & Unus,

 Pulvere ab hoc uno corpora trina dabit.

He says, that there is so much expressed in so few words, the Latin is so concise, and the sense so full, that he begs to be excused attempting a translation in English.

Upon reading this, M. Poppy immediately undertook this task; and desires the Author of the Post-Bo, to send to him on the like occasion; on which he will be ready to assist him, as a brother, upon a reasonable consideration.

Close to her husband, Frances, join'd once more

Lies here; one dust, which was one flesh before.

Here, as injoin'd, her Sister Anne's remains

Were lay'd: one dust three bodies thus contains,

Th' almighty Source of things, th' immense Three-One,

Will raise three bodies from this dust alone.

A Copy of a Letter, written some time since from onboard the Prince Frederick, having been published in the Courants of Sat. Jan. 31. and Mond. Feb. 2. and in the Post-Boy and Daily Journal of Feb. 2. it was thought proper to give an abstract of it.

As the Prince Frederick lay in the River near Woolwich, 2 Hoys one night dropped their anchors under her stern, and from them were brought in boats bale goods, which were taken in at the gun room Port, and put down into the bread-room; the bulk-head of which was broken down, to convey them into the Hold. Likewise several bales were brought on board in wherries; and in the like private manner were carried into the Hold. John Dillon, the Gunner's first Mate, living in Denmark-street, Radcliff highway, can give a very good account of what came in at the gun-room ports.

The Spotswood put into Dominico, where all her Cargo, reckoned at 250 Tun, was put on board the Prince Frederick, which was so crouded and filled up, as to oblige a great many men to take up their lodgings on the open deck.

The outside wrappers of the bales were directed for Jamaica; which were stripped off, with their cords, and either given to some of the men, or thrown over board. Upon the under wrapper was the South Sea Company's mark on part of them.

From Dominico the Prince Frederick and the Spotswood sailed for Jamaica, into which place the Spotswood went; and the Prince Frederick lay off, till the Prince of Asturias, upon the firing of a gun, came out to her, and then they sailed together to Vera Cruz. There the Prince Frederick, having landed the goods in the Hold, put those which were between decks into their room; which goods were a great part unmarked. Whereupon the gunner, and one mid-shipman (John Blakely of Stepney) spent a great many days in marking those bales with the South Sea Company's mark; which they did so exactly, that the difference could hardly be discerned. This marking of the goods was observed by almost all the Ship's Company.

Edinburgh, Jan. 22. Last tuesday the Jury returned their verdict against Campbell the notorious Thief, and Yesterday the Lord Provost, as High-Sheriff pronounced sentence of death upon him. Flying Post, Whitehall Even. Jan. 29.

Jan. 26. On thursday last died the right honourable Robert E. of Morton, who is to be interred in the Palace of Holy Rood house. He is succeeded in honour and estate by his Brother Col. George Douglas. D. Journal, Feb. 3.

Dublin, Jan. 24. On thursday last Alderman Tho. Boston was taken into custody, and sent to the Provost Marshal Prison, pursuant to an order of the H. of Commons. D. Journ. Feb. 3.

* * *

FOREIGN NEWS.

Thurday, Jan. 29. Yesterday arrived the Mail due from France.

Paris, Feb. 4. N.S. M. Le Pelletier, formerly first President of the Parliament of Paris died Jan. 30. Courant.

On the 1st instant the Duke of Lorrain went to Versailles, and did fealty and homage to the King, for the Duchy of Bar, and other alienable domains of the Crown, pursuant to the Treaty of Ryswick. Post Boy, Daily Post. The Evening, Whitehall, and London Evening Posts.

Vienna, Jan. 21. They write from Kerment in Lower Hungary, that the inhabitants of 18 villages situate upon the Draice, having taken arms, had besieged the Castle of Balladinck, belonging to General Czackey, and taken it by storm; that they had burnt an Officer alive there, put to death some Heydukes and Peasants who were retired thither, and carried off the Burgrave and several Officers prisoners, after having plundered the Castle. Flying Post.

The Evening, St. James, and Whitehall Evening Posts, read Drave instead of Draice: The Evening Post, instead of Balladinck, Belladineta; and the St. James's and Whitehall, Balladinetz.

Hague, Jan. 31. On friday night last, an Express was dispatched to the Court of Spain, by the way of Paris, with the States General's Ratification of their Accession to the Treaty of Seville, St. James and Whitehall Evening Posts.

Hanover, Jan. 27. The Privy Council often holds extraordinary Assemblies. The Officers are ordered to repair to their Regiments, and the Troops are to be in a readiness for a march upon the first command, and to provide themselves with all necessaries for a Camp; and yesterday an Officer was dispatched to the Court of Cassel, with the like orders for the Hessian Troops in the pay of Great Britain. Flying Post, Daily Post, Jan. 30.

Hamburg, Jan. 31. From Moscow we have received advice, that the Body of Troops, with which the Czar is to assist the Emperor, have received orders to be ready to march by the latter end of March. Whitehall Evening.

Friday, Jan. 30, Hamburg, Jan. 27. N.S. Letters from Moscow advise, that they are making vast preparations to celebrate a great Feast, with Fire-works and other diversions: and it is thought the Czar will consummate his marriage toward the latter end of Feb. Courant.

Rome, Jan. 7. On sunday night last there was a great Assembly of Nobles at Count Bolognetti's; and, among the rest, the Chevalier de St. George's eldest son, who danced with several of the young Ladies. Post Boy, Whitehall Evening.

Saturday, Jan. 31. Yesterday arrived three Mails from Flanders.

Vienna, Jan. 21. N.S. Orders have been given to the Baron of Steinberg, Commander General of the Field Artillery, to get 30 Field-pieces, with all the necessary Train, ready to march at the first command. Orders are Likewise given to send into the Magazines in Tirre 16,000 quintals of Powder. Daily Post.

The Courant of monday says, that this Artillery is designed for Bohemia and instead of Tirre, has Tyrol, upon the frontiers of Italy.

Lisbon, Jan. 29. The advices from the Coast of Africa mention, that the Blacks and Whites having taken the oath of fidelity to King Muly Abdallah, that Prince was in quiet possession of the Kingdoms of Fez and Morocco, but had still that of Fez to reduce to his obedience. 'Tis (illegible text) that he had granted liberty to many Christian Slaves, and treated them, in other respects, with great humanity. Morning Post

Instead of the Kingdoms of Fez and Morocco, I presume it ought to be read the Kingdom of Morocco.

Hague, Jan. 20. The Design of settling Don Carlos in Italy has occasioned the following Account of the Duke of Tuscany's Family.

The present Great Duke's name is John-Gaston: who was born May 24. N.S. 1671. and married Anna Maria Francisca, Daughter to Julius-Francis, D. of Saxe-Lawenburg, and Widow of Philip William, Count-Palatine of the Rhine: by whom he has no Issue.

His Father was Cosmo III. who first obtained of the Emperor and the Pope the Title of Royal Highness, after his Ancestors had enjoyed that of Great Duke from the year 1569, when Pope Pius V. conferred it upon his Grandfather's Grandfather Cosmo I. Cosmo III. was born Aug. 4. 1642, and married Marguerite Louise, Daughter of Gaston John Baptist, D of Orleans. He had several Brothers; all of whom being dead without Issue, except the Cardinal de Medicis, whose name was Francis-Mary, that Prelate resigned the Purple in 1709, and married Eleonora, Daughter to Vincent, D. of Guastalla; but died without Issue Feb. 3. 1721.

At that time the present Duke had an elder brother alive, named Ferdinand, who was born Aug 9. 1663. and married Violante-Beatrix-Maria Teresa, Daughter of Ferdinand-Mary, Elector of Bavaria; but died also without Issue. He has one Sister now living, viz. Anne-Mary-Louise, married in 1691 to John-William, late Elector Palatine: but she has like wise no Issue. Lond. Journ.

Monday, Feb. 2. Yesterday arrived the Mail due from Holland. Moscow, Jan. 9. N.S. Yesterday Prince Iwan Alexiewitz Dolgorucki was married to the late General Field Marshal Scheremetof's Daughter; the Ceremony being performed by the Arch-bishop of Novogrod, in the presence of the Czar, the Relations of both Families, and the Russian and foreign Ministers: upon which occasion his Majesty presented the Bridegroom with a diamond ring, valued at 13,000 Rubles, and made the Bride as many presents as came to 50,000. Some advices from Persia say, Prince Thamas had made himself master of Casbin, situate between Tauris and Ispahan; and that Sultan Efreff had thus himself up in this last place, to make the best defence in his power. An Ambassador is shortly expected here from Prince Thamas. Courant.

Hague, Feb. 7. It is written from Vienna, that they had received advice by an Express from Florence, that the Great Duke of Tuscany was fallen so dangerously ill, that they began to despair of his life. They write from Berlin of the 31st of Jan. that the Queen of Prussia was fallen very ill. Daily Post.

Francfort, Feb. 2. Great levies are carried on in the Bishopricks of Wurtzberg and Bamberg, to compleat the Troops which the Bishop has agreed to supply the Emperor with. The Regiment of Dragoons of Philippi has received orders to march the 10th instant towards Italy; and will be soon followed by the Regiments of Cavalry of Eugene, Waterborn, Lichtenstein, Old Wirtemberg, and Hamilton, under the command of General Philippi. Daily Journal, Morning Post.

Tuesday, Feb. 3. Vienna, Jan. 25. N.S. We are apt to think, there will be a war in Poland next summer; if it be true, as we hear, that his Polish Majesty has thoughts of returning into his kingdom, at the head of a numerous Army, to give weight to his demands; wherein he will be supported by the Courts of Vienna and Berlin. That Prince has not only bespoke a great number of Tents here, which are to be made after the Turkish fashion, but is also buying up all the best horses his Jockeys can light on. Courant, the Evening, and Whitehall Even. Posts.

It is said, that his Imperial Majesty will in a short time assemble a General Dyet of the Princes of the Empire, in order to get his dispositions of the Succession to his hereditary Dominions, in case of his decease without male Issue, confirmed. St. James's Evening.

Wednesday, Feb. 4. Yesterday arriv'd the Mail due from France.

Hamburgh, Jan. 31. N.S. They write from Moscow, that in regard the Russians concerned in the trade to Persia were not able of themselves to carry it on to advantage, the Czar has published an Edict, whereby all foreign Merchants are admitted into the said Trade. Courant.

Paris, Feb. 3. 'An Imperial Courier arriv'd here from Vienna Jan. 21. with orders to the Emperor's Plenipotentiaries, to expostulate both with the Ministers of his most Christian Majesty, and those of the maritime Powers, about the indignity which his Imperial Majesty suggests to be put upon him by the Treaty of Seville; and to declare, in the name of his Imperial Majesty, that he will inviolably adhere to the former Treaties, and not suffer Laws to be prescribed to him, nor be forced to comply with Innovations repugnant to the said Treaties.' Post Boy.

On Wednesday Stocks were

India South Sea 104 1 half 5 8ths. Ditto Annuities 1061 4th. India 181 1 half. Bank 139 3 4ths. 3 per Cent. 94 5 8ths. African 45. York Buildings 18 1qr. Royal Ox. 86 1 4th. London Ass. 11 78ths. South Sea Bond, 3 l. 18 s. Pr. India Bond, 4 l. 18 s. Pr.

* * *

ADVERTISEMENTS.

WHEREAS there has been lately printed, by Subscription, a History of Arianism and Socinianism, and some of the Impression is left unsubscribed for, they are to be sold, at the Subscription Price, by Mr. Gilliver, Bookseller, at Homer's Head over against St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet-street.

This Day is Publish'd

TWO EPISTLES to Mr. Pope, concerning the Authors of the Age. By the Author of the Universal Passion. Printed for Lawton Gilliver, at Homer's Head in Fleet-street.

Where may be had,

A new Edition of the Dunciad, 8°. with some additional Notes and Figures.

Likewise the Art of Politicks, in Imitation of Horace's Art of Poetry, with a curious Frontispiece.―Risum teneatis amici.

And speedily will be published,

Vida opera omnia Poetica, quibus adjicitur ejusdem Dialogus de dignitate Reipublicæ: ex recensione R. Russel A.N. 2. Tom. 12mo.

BOOKS Printed and Sold by John Brotherton at the Bible in Cornhil.

Life of Oliver Cromwel, 8vo.

Collection of Novels, 12°. 6 Vol.

D' Anois Tales of the Fairies, 3 V. 12°.

Free Thoughts on Religion.

Pilgrim's Progress in 8°. with Cuts, 2 Vol.

Spectators, 8 Vol.

Prideaux Connection, 4 Vol.

Musical Miscell. 4 Vol. 8°.

The Dancing master, by Mr. John Essex, 4°.

Boyer's Telemachus, 12°.

Gay's Fables, 82.

Gordon's Geog. Grammar.

Boyer's Dictionary in 4°. or 8°.

Blais's Sermons, 5 Vol. 8°.

Shakespear's Plays.

Addison's Works, 4 Vol.

This Day is Publish'd,

Arrian's History of Alexander's Expeditions.

TTanslated from the Greek with Notes Historial, Geographical, and Critical. By Mr. Rooke. In two Vol.

To which is prefix'd,

M. Le Clerc's Criticism upon Quintus Curtius, and some Remarks upon Mr. Perizonius': Vindication of that Author.

Printed for T. Worral, at the Judges Head in Fleet-street; J. Gray, at the Cross Keys in the Poultry; L. Gilliver, at Homer's Head in Fleet-street; and R. Witlock, at Sir Isaac Newton's Head in Cornhil.

Thus Day is published,

SOME Account of the Life and Character of TIMOLEON.

Cum omnia ratione, animoque lustraveris, omnium societatum nulla est gravior, nulla carior, quam ea, qua cum republica est unicuique nostrum. Cari sunt parentes, cari liberi, propinqui, familiares: sed omnes omnium caritates patria una complexa est. Cic.

Printed for J. Roberts in Warwick-Lane, Where may be had An Enquiry into the Cause of the Decay of the Dissenting Interest: And Maurrice's Sermon preach'd at Oxford, as an Antidote against Mr. Berry's Sermon preach'd at the same place.

* * *

LONDON: Printed and Sold by J. Roberts in Warwick-Lane, and at the Pamphlet-Shops of London and Westminster; and also at the Pegasus (vulgarly called the Flying-horse) in Grubstreet, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in.

(Price Two Pence.)

