The Grub-street Journal — April 30th, 1730

Exported from Wikisource on May 12, 2026

Numb. 17.

The Grub-street Journal.

* * *

Thursday, APRIL 30. 1730.

* * *

Here all his suffering brotherhood retire;

And 'scape the martyrdom of jakes and fire.

Dunciad, B. I.

The two following Letters (the former of which, in a particular manner, concerns our Members) having been read to the Society, were ordered to be printed.

To Mr. Deputy James Jones, Waste-paper Merchant, in the Long-walk near Smithfield.

Dear Jones,

IF you have not quite forgotten your old Friend, let me know it. In the last age we maintained a constant correspondence; of which I beg I may not be deprived, tho' my privileges in other respects are now much increased. Time was, I confined my self to one poor Island, and was content with the freedom of the city of London: but now I am become a denizen of the whole globe, and have the choice of forty kingdoms to live in. And tho' the novelty and variety with which I daily meet in my travels, afford me a continual diversion; yet I cannot forget the pains and the pleasure we have often taken together, in consulting the peace and happiness of mankind, by bundling up whole heaps of the Works of the Learned, and throwing them into your dark repository of humane literature.

The Spirit of the brain, distilled by the heat of the imagination, like some chemical Preparations, when exposed to the air, is apt to smoke, to take fire, to crack, and bounce, to the no small disturbance of the neighbourhood. Nay the very insipid phlegm, and even the caput mortuum of the brain, after this chemical operation, being mixed with ink, and spread upon paper, have the same combustible, noisy qualities, with the spirits themselves. But, to thy immortal honour be it spoken, it is in thy power to suppress this noise, to extinguish this flame, and to dispel this smoak, so as they shall give no more offence to the eyes, ears, and noses of Christian people.

How often have I been an eye-witness of thy particular regard to my self, and other Authors of the same class, in piling up our Works above the reach of the tallest and most gigantic Critic! Long, learned, and laborious Commentaries upon the Scriptures usually formed the basis of the structure: upon which were raised a great number of Sermons and theological Discourses. Controversies in Divinity, and Politics, supported on both sides by the same texts differently interpreted, defended by scholastic distinctions, and confirmed by authorities of great weight, lay very heavy upon the Expositions of Scripture. Next to these were placed Controversies in Physic, tending equally to the health of the body natural, as the former do to that of the soul and of the body politic. Histories of our own, and of foreign nations, giving a different, and sometimes a contradictory account, of the same transactions, and yet all professing the strictest impartiality and veracity, were laid all together in the next rank. Upon these were spread Philosophical pieces, with a substratum of Mathematical Demonstrations, made cosy in an unintelligible manner to the meanest capacity. Philosophy was pressed down very close by Philological Books, and Pamphlets, Novels, Plays, Poems, &c. But superior to all appeared Daily and Weekly Posts, and Journals, &c. which being written in haste, and containing light trivial matters, upon a thin, weak paper, required, and received from you the greatest instances of tenderness and care.

In this disposition of the materials which composed this structure of erudition, all the world must acknowledge your great intellectual and moral qualifications. Nothing could better manifest your skill in this kind of architecture, and your regard to sound doctrine, contained in the voluminous Works of those learned and painful Divines, Mr. Doolittle, Mr. Henry, &c. than to make them the foundation of the whole learned edifice.

Your great love of peace and union is conspicuous in your continual endeavours to reconcile the most bitter adversaries; whom, tho' at never so great a distance, you bring near one another, and oblige them even to lie close together, without the least disturbance. Thus you happily put an end to the altercations among the Nonjurors, about the necessity of mixing wine and water in the Eucharist, &c. and to those among some Bishops and Deans, about the nature of Christ's kingdom, &c. When polemical Writers in the heat of the argument make digressions to things altogether foreign to the first subject of the controversy, (which is generally done,) and the world begins to be tired with reading and buying, (which after a while it always is;) you then step in to the assistance of the Book sellers on both sides of the question, and by purchasing the whole remainder of the impression, put an end to the whole dispute. Thus you evidently prove your self that in reality, which the old Gentleman at Rome only pretends to be. The supreme, infallible Judge of controversy, to whose final decision all persons are obliged to submit.

But your authority and power extend much farther than he even pretends to carry his; for you determine controversies in Physic, and other Arts and Sciences, as infallibly, as those in Divinity. And therefore it is hoped, that you will speedily interpose, and reconcile Dr. Turner, and Dr. Blondel; who have poured out such a profusion of Learning and Logic, concerning the marking of children, that it is feared, they will soon intirely exhaust, not only the argument, but themselves. When you admit those Gentlemens compositions into your Literatory, it may not be amiss to place the reverend and learned Dr. Mitchell's Dissertation concerning Sooterkins, as a proper Moderator between them.

Your pile of History, I hope, will soon be considerably raised by the addition of several Secret and Critical Histories lately published, which are written with equal elegancy and veracity.

I have often been concerned at the ill success of my worthy friend the Cantabrigian Philosopher; who happening to jar the string in the harmony of human understanding, among those, who were below his own height; they instead of subscribing to his doctrine, were for tying him fast, and sending him to Bedlam. Had he dextrously screwed up this string to its right key among those of the same pitch, and stricken gently upon it, they by a secret necessary sympathy, would have stricken exactly at the same time, and the Greenian Philosophy had then been as much admired and applauded as ever the Cartesian was. But this had deprived you of an opportunity of shewing your generosity to a person undeservedly taken under the obloquy of the world, for writing above their capacity, and of taking his sublime Works into your protection.

Your constant regard to the Belles Lettres, and to Poetry in particular, is very remarkable. The abortive offspring of the Muses whom no Parish Clerks (tho' generally great lovers of rhime) would vouchsafe to inter, you have decently laid in your own vault. Others, who have been sent out by their parents, from their Garrets in Grub-street, to seek their fortune in the world, so young that they could not speak plain, nor even tell their own names, you have charitably taken into your house. The deformed, the maimed, the lame, the blind, and the crazy, those dismal objects which are continually plying at Book-sellers Shops, for alms, receive it certainly at last from you. Nay, so extensive is your goodness, that it reaches even to those who are manifest cheats, and beg under false names, those, who like the ragged Letter carriers of the Penny-post, run about with Epistles in their hands; the sturdy, satyrical beggars, who abuse all who refuse them relief; and the noisy Ballad-singers, bred up in idleness and lewdness, who are continually disturbing the peace of the neighbourhood, and spreading scandal about the Town; all these, by the greatest instance of charity, both towards them, and the world, you take up and confine, in order to make them useful and serviceable hereafter in some proper way. Insomuch that your Literatory is a lively representation in miniature, of three famous Hospitals, St. Bartholomew's, Bridewell, and Bedlam.

The poetical Gentry. I remember were always grumbling at their being placed under the News Papers; and when mounted their Passages, were still verifying the proverb relating to their beggerly fraternity, by endeavouring to ride over the heads of our Mercurial Authors. But these mounted on their Post-horses, which were fleeter and lighter than the heavy Jades of the other, still kept the supreme place which you had assigned them. While the poor deprest Philosophical pieces, tho' assisted by mathematical engines, groaned under the intolerable weight of leaden Poetry.

There used likewise to be some disputes about precedence among the Mercurial Writers, even those of the same political principles; who, after they had quarrelled in Coffee-houses, and other places, continued their contentions for superiority even in this place of repose: but you soon ended those ambitious contests, by tying up promiscously, and so uniting, Walpoleans and Pultneans, in one and the same cord.

Thus my letter is insensibly extended to a greater length than I designed: my thoughts having been carried away by the pleasing images of things once so grateful to me in my own country. And as I have, by the magic of fancy, been now present above this hour, with my old Friend, and assisting him in ranging in his Literatory the Works of the Learned: so, by the same means, in spite of my enemies, I meet the whole Society of my Friends once a week at the Pegasus. To whom I desire this Letter may be shewn, as a testimony how much I have them and their affairs at heart, even under the greatest discouragement, in a place where they are at present, especially the Political Writers, the frequent subject of ridicule.

I shall, with impatience, expect to hear of the receipt of this; and desire to be informed at the same time, what Authors you have discharged out of your Hospital to be employed in new occupations at home; whom you have sent to travel abroad, since I left England; and who have succeeded in their room. Those who travel, I think, always move northward; so that I must not hope for the pleasure of seeing any of them here, to give me an account of your welfare: which I shall hope to receive very soon from your own hand, and thereby the greatest satisfaction imaginable to,

Dear Jones,

Paris, March 25, 1730.

Your most obliged

and affectionate servant, N. M.

To Mr. Bavius, Secretary to the Grub street Society.

SIR, April 10, 1730.

I Persuade my self, that the following copy of a Bill from a Welch Surgeon to one of his Patients will not be a disagreeable entertainment to the generality of your Readers. I assure you it is matter of fact, the original Bill (of which this is a copy) being in a Lawyer's hands: so that, in all probability, a law-suit will commence between our ancient Briton and the Lady, who has a heavy charge laid against her, of Hatred, Malice, Envy, &c. and turning away from and breaking the windows of hur Surgeon, which has consequently put her Welch blood in a ferment. Your inserting this in your next Journal will oblige

Yours unknown, B. S.

Dr. Davey Shones his Bill, at Oswestrey, for Mrs. Suesanna Madox.

Nov. 9. 1729.

l. s. d.

FOR dresing hur mortify'd elcere upon

hur Lege, and clen it from stinkin,

with sprits of Chamfire, Tinct. Myrhe,

an udder dings prapor for 49 tims.

15 tims it cost me 2s. 6d. evry

tim before I cow'd get the stinkin

flesse away, and the oder 34 tims 3 1 6

For lancin and scallin the boune 0 10 0

For ungts. ols, and linimt. to anointe the

stinkin Lege 0 7 6

For pills aurea guilded with goulde 0 7 6

For drams and cordiolls for hur and

hur companeons 0 7 6

For lodgen, care, and attendence uppon hur 1 12 6

For running away, and hindrin me to have

tim to make hur cure to purficteon 2 10 0

For envy, hatred, and mallis, and ill-will

in speaking, uttrin, and purnouncin sevrall

reflections, and fuls storees uppon

me and my hous 1 12 0

For brekin my glas in the glas windos with hur hors is nos. 0 1 0

10 9 6

LONDON.

Thursday, April 23.

On tuesday night Samuel Woodham, Esq; one of his Majesty's Justices of the Peace for the County of Surry, being informed, that there were tables maintained, and great resort of persons playing at Dice at Cupid's gardens on Southwark side of the water, went thither with the Constables and other officers of the Parish of Lambeth to suppress the same; but the Landlord of the house promising that no play should be suffered there for the future, there were none taken into custody. Courant.

Yesterday in the afternoon a Carman sitting upon the Cops of his Cart coming up from the Keys, happening to turn short, was, by a sudden jolt, thrown off his Cart, and the wheel of the Cart bruised the right side of his body in such a terrible manner that his life is despaired of. Ibid.

Besides the three Battalions of foot guards who are to assist in the establishing Don Carlos in Italy, we hear that the Regiments of Kirk's, Gore's and Clayton's are are also to embark on the same account. Ibid.

The Rev. Mr. Abbot is presented by the Rt. Rev. the Lord Bishop of London, to be Reader in his Majesty's Royal Chappel at St. James's, in the room of the Rev. Mr. Bentham, deceased. Post Boy.

The Rev. Dr Cross was lately presented to the Rectory of Ashby, in the County of Norfolk and Diocese of Norwich. Ibid.

A fine monument of marble is erecting in the Cloisters of Westminster Abbey, to the memory of the Rev. Dr. Gee, late Dean of Lincoln, and one of the Prebendaries of that Church. Ibid.

Mr. Overall received yesterday 30 Guineas from the Gentlemen Directors of the Hon. East-india Company; and 2 guineas in a letter from a Gentleman; to distribute among the families of the poor unfortunate Firemen. Ibid.

On tuesday sat Col. Wyndham. member of parliament for Aldborough in Suffolk, and Lieut. Governor of Chelsea College, departed this life, having been violently afflicted with the strangury, so that he had not made water for 10 days together. D. Post.

The Lyon, Capt. Lyon, bound from London to Bristol, was lately lost near the Land's end. D. Journal.

Last tuesday evening Mr. Sanders, of Islington, on his return from Holloway, was met by 3 foot-pads near the half-way-house, who robb'd him of 17s. and 9 d. and his watch. Ibid.

We hear that on Tuesday last his Grace the Duke of Dorset kissed his Majesty's hand on his being appointed Lord Lieut. of Ireland. Ibid.

Mr. Nicholl, charged upon a writ of appeal with the murder of Mr. Parry, of Hertfordshire, was yesterday brought to the Bar of the King's-bench at Westminster to plead to the same to which he pleaded not guilty. The Appellant and Witnesses being all in the Country, no day was fixed for trial, but saturday next was appointed to fix a day. Ibid.

Last night Phormio, a play of Terence, was acted by the Scholars, at the Charter-house; each part was so curiously entered into, by the young Gentlemen, that it gave the audience surprising satisfaction. Even. Post.

The Earl of Albemarle, and the Lord James Cavendish, design to attend Don Carlos into Italy, they having begun to make the necessary preparations for that purpose. Ibid.

On sunday night 3 Bridewel boys were taken into custody for attempting to rescue 4 women of the town out of the hands of the Constable; but the rest of the Fraternity in Bridewell having notice of it, a party of them, armed with sticks, came to their assistance, who beat the watch and Constables to such a degree that they were obliged to release them. Ibid.

On tuesday morning a great Cricket match was play'd in Hyde park by the Rt. Hon. the Earl of Albemarle, the Lord James Cavendish, and several persons of distinction, at which his Royal Highness the Prince was pleased to be present. Ibid.

On tuesday died, in the 10th year of his age, the Hon. James Stanhope, Esq; youngest son of the Rt. Hon. James late Earl of Stanhope. Ibid.

We hear that the Rt Hon. the Lord Wilmington will be soon declared keeper of the Privy Seal. Ibid.

Last week a Regiment of foot, quartered at Bristol, began their march for Scotland; and 2 Clergymen, lately insisted, marched with them, one a Yorkshire man, and the other a Presbyterian of the Scots Kirk. Ibid.

One Smith lately secured in Exeter Goal, has impeached William Hawkins, since taken and committed to prison at Launceston in Cornwall, and made a full discovery of the robbery by them committed on Mr. Fry's pack horses, and acquainted the Carrier where his share of money was buried, which he has since recovered. The person who took Hawkins is to receive 100l. reward. Ibid.

This day a motion was made at the Court of King's-bench, Westminster, on the behalf of Knox Ward, Esq; Defendant, against Miss Holt of Hackney, Plaintiff, in order to set aside the judgment obtained against him Last term in favour of the Plaintiff for 2000 l. Damage, upon a breach of promise of Marriage, on account of excessive damages and irregularities in the proceedings of the trial, which said motion was not then agreed to, but ordered to be moved again another day. St. James's Evening.

A project is on foot for reducing the silver Coin of this Kingdom, upon a Par with that of some neighbouring nations. Ibid

We hear that the new market in Bloomsbury takes already so well, that his Grace the Duke of Bedford intends shortly to pull down the remaining part of the old market, in order to build another part suitable to that already finished. Ibid.

A footman to a Lord in Whitehall, having a suspicion that his wife (who keeps a Chandler's Shop) had followed the example of her betters, in making him a Cuckold, hath stabb'd her into the Hip very dangerously. Ibid.

Last tuesday as some workmen were shoaring the front house turning from Air-street into Hockley in the Hole, part of the wall fell in, and buried one of the Carpenters in the Rubbish; he was taken out alive, but died in about three hours after. Ibid.

Mr. Lyddel's Council moved the Court of Commonpleas on tuesday for a new trial, on account of the extraordinary damages given in the action brought against him by the Lord Abergavenny, but the Court would not grant it. Whitehall Evening.

The Queen has purchased several hundred Acres of Land, lying between Richmond and Kew green, of the Lady Molineux, which is to be laid to the Royal Gardens at Richmond, to enlarge and make them more commodious. Ibid.

There was a report yesterday in the afternoon that Count Kinski, the Imperial Envoy, had communicated to the ministry some favourable advice he had received from Vienna, in relation to the affair of Don Carlos, and that the intended armament of Great Britain on that account will be laid aside. Lond Even.

Friday, April 24.

Yesterday one Jane Tazell was committed to Newgate by Sir William Billers, on the oath of Peter Watkins, for stealing from his person a silver watch. Courant.

Yesterday at noon Richard Ellis, alias Rogers, alias Tho. Hill, who was convicted at the Sessions at Guildhall on the 6th instance, of endeavouring to extort money from Jeremiah Omer, a Woolen draper's journeyman in Gracechurch-street, stood in the pillory in the said street, pursuant to his sentence, and was very ruffly treated by the populace. Ibid.

I suppose our Author means roughly, unless he alludes to the Ruff about the worthy Gentleman's neck.

We hear that the following promotions will soon be made at Court, viz. the Rt. Hon. the Lord Trevor will be made president of the Council; Lord Wilmington Lord privy seal, in the room of the Lord Trevor; his Grace the Duke of Dorset, Lord Lieutenant of Ireland; his Grace the Duke of Devonshire, Lord Steward of the houshold, in the room of the Duke of Dorset; his Grace the Duke of St. Albans, Captain of the Band of Gentlemen Pensioners, in the room of the Duke of Devonshire; the Rt. Hon. Henry Pelham, Esq; Pay-master of the forces, in the room of the Lord Wilmington; Sir Charles Turnour, one of the tellers of the Exchequer for life; Sir William Young one of the Lords of the treasury, in the room of Sir Charles Turnour, and there are other promotions which we shall soon give an account of. Post Boy

On wednesday sat, one Charles Roberts belonging to the Hon. Col. Murray's regiment in Ireland, but since deserted, was taken in Gardiner's-lane, Westminster, by a Serjeant who came to town to recruit for that Regiment, and being carried before the Col. was committed to the Savoy, in order to be tried at a general Court Martial, it being the second time of his desertion. Ibid.

Mr. Overall received yesterday for the fremens widows 2 guineas from Mr. R. J. 1 guinea and a half from Mr J. P. to be given to the 2 widows who have the most children; and 1 guinea from Mr. Johnson. Ibid.

Yesterday the Rt. Hon the Earl of Albemarle relieved Col. Hanmer at the Tower, as Commander, when his Lordship gave strict orders to the Battalion in that Garrison, to be ready at command, it being daily expected that a detachment of the 3 regiments of guards will be drawn off, in order to go abroad. Ibid.

We hear that George Abbot and Hen. Moody Esqs; of the pay-office at the horse-guards, who were appointed pay masters to the expedition to Spain in the year 1719, under the command of the Lord Cobham, will be appointed pay masters to the forces on the intended expedition. Ibid.

By letters from Pontefract in Yorkshire, we received the following advice; that about a fortnight ago Mr. Matthew Wilks, a very noted farmer at Brotham in that County, went to receive a large sum of money at a neighbouring Village; but on his return home, was set upon by 3 persons, who robbed and beat him in a very barbarous manner, leaving him for dead; one of whom is since taken and being carried before a Magistrate, was committed to the county Goal, where he has since made a full discovery of his two other accomplices, who are now in custody in the said Goal, in order to take their trials at the next assizes. Ibid.

The Earl of Berkely is dangerously ill of the Gout in his stomach, accompany'd with bad symptoms. D. Post.

Sir John Williams, Knt. an eminent Turkey Merchant of this city, and Alderman of Cripplegate Ward, stands a Candidate for the Borough of Aldborough, in Suffolk, in the room of Col. Wyndham, lately deceased; as does also Capt. Purvis, and last tuesday he set out for that place to gather with Tho. Botts, Esq; Recorder of Aldborough. Ibid.

It is written from Cadiz the 11th instant, N.S. that the advice Boat which was arrived there from Buenos Ayres, brought a particular account of the loss of the Sea-horse, Cap. Moore White, bound from thence to London. It is added, that she had on board a considerable quantity of treasure, of which about 8000 pieces of eight were saved, but were sized immediately by the Royal Spanish Officers. The embargo which had been laid in the Sea-ports of Spain, on staves and casks, was taken off. Daily Journal

The Ship lost near Cadiz, bound to Gibraltar, proved (as we feared) to be the Fortune, Capt. Gill; besides the persons on board her, the regimental cloaths she had in her were saved. Ibid.

Saturday, April 25.

We hear from Winbourne in Dorsetshire, that the beginning of Last week, the Lord of the Manor going to an old man in that neighbourhood, upwards of 80 years of age, who was possessed of a Copyhold estate, of about 30 l. per ann. in order to purchase it to make some further improvements in his Manorship, alledging at the same time, that (by the course of years) he could not expect to live much longer. The old Gentleman being so enraged at his Lordship'd proposal, shewed his resentment so far, that the next morning he sent for a young woman about 20 and was carried to Church in his chair, and married, being supported by two men during the ceremony. Applebee.

It is to be hoped the old Gentleman will soon be a little tamer.

Yesterday morning his Royal Highness the Prince rode out for the air in Hyde-park; but returning home thro' the King's Meuse, his highness's horse started and threw him, but was attended with no ill consequence. Courant.

Yesterday the East India Company received advice of their Ship Heathcote being lately arrived off Torbay on tuesday Last. She left Bengal the middle of August, and touched at Madrass about a week in October, and brings a Parquet from thence. There are arrived on board her, Mr. Wilkie, and Mr. Lyell, Supercargoes of the Morice from Mocha, who came from St. Helena with this Ship the 14th of February, but parted about the line. Mr. Wilkie brings advice of the advice of the arrival of Capt. Robert Lyell in the Windham, at Bombay, on the 24th of August, from Bengal. By the Heathcote we hear, that two Ostend Ships lay at Bengall under Polish colours; but that two English and two Dutch Ships lay in Balazor road, with full intent to oppose those undermining traders. Post Boy.

Notice is given to all Peers, Peeresses, and Privy-counsellors, that the Court goes into mourning tomorrow, being the 26th instant for the Czar of Muscovy: The Ladies to wear black silk, plain or fringed Linnen, the Men to wear black Cloth or Velvet, plain linnen, back buckles. Ibid.

We hear that the Parliament will rise in a fortnight. D. Post.

Yesterday at a Court held at Bridewell the following Gentlemen were admitted Governors of that and Beth lehem hospitals, viz. Dr. Henchman, Chancellor of the Diocese of London, Mr. Ambrose Wilson, Haberdasher of Hats, in Fenchurch-street, and Mr. Will. Woolball, Merchant in Lime-street. Ibid.

Mr. Wheeler, (who lately lived in Bartlet's buildings in Holbourn) Daughter of ——— Wheeler, Esq; one of the Treasurers of the Temple, left by her Will (dated March 17, 1730) 2000 l. towards the building of the incurable hospital adjoining to Bethlehem in Moorfields. Ib.

Yesterday Joseph Rouse of Hampstead, Esq; gave bail before the Lord Chief Justice Raymond, to try the indictment found against him last term for perjury. Ibid.

On thursday a great number of horse and foot passengers were robbed by a gang of Highwaymen, on the Essex road, between Colchester and Stratford. Ibid.

On wednesday next will be recalled at the pay-office in Broad-street, the short allowance money due to his Majesty's Ships undermentioned;

Beginning Ending

Argyle, 1 July 1725. 27 Dec. 1725.

Colchester, 25 Ditto 23 May 1726.

Ditto, 24 May 1726, 5 Sept. ditto

Dragon, 18 August 1725. 9 Nov. 1725.

Faulkland, 1 Novem. 1721. 28 Sept 1723.

Happy Sloop, 16 Decem. 1725. 9 March 1725.

Sapphire, 7 Sept. 1728. 31 July 1729.

Ib.

On thursday last died at his house in Tower street Mr. Texbury, a land waiter of the Customs, in the Port of London: the place, worth about 300 l. per annum, is in the gift of the Lords Commissioners of the treasury. Even. Post. St.James's Even. and Whitehall.

Mr. Budgell, mentioned in our former, hath attempted to print his speech to his Majesty in the Drawing-room, and likewise the memorial at the same time; but, we hear that no body will meddle with it. St James's Ev.

Last thursday night two men, who appeared like tradesmen of Credit, went into a publick house in high Holbourn, and sent for Mr. Bland, a Peruke maker in Bloomsbury, and ordered the messenger to bid him bring some of his best bob Wigs; which he did, and they readily bought each of them one, for which they paid him two guineas a piece, and way-laid him on his return home, in the alley going into Hyde-street, where they robbed him of his four guineas and 8 s. and made their escapes. Ibid. and Whitehall.

This morning two Highwaymen were apprehended by the watch at London-wall, who, there is reason to believe, are the persons who for some time have infested the road about Bow and Stratford. Whitehall Even.

On wednesday, between 3 and 4 in the morning, the Norwich and Ipswich stage Coaches were stopt a little beyond Mile-end, by two Highwaymen, who robbed the passengers of what money and valuable things they had. Ibid.

This morning, about half an hour after 2, one Garden and one Guy or Doyle, going to the red Lion-inn in Aldersgate-street, to enquire when the Huntingdon flying Stage-coach set out, were suspected to be highway men, and secured; upon searching them, they found four pistols loaded with ball; and being examined before the Lord Mayor, they were committed to Newgate. One of them is supposed to be an old offender. Their horses, which were at some distance from the inn, were secured, and carried to the Green-yard. London Evening Post.

Monday, April 27.

Their Majesties did not dine in publick yesterday at St. James's, the Queen being ill of the gout, and her Majesty was carried to the Chappel Royal in her Chair. Cour.

This day Roger Johnson, who was some time past tried on several Indictments at the Sessions in the Old-bailey; and also tried at the King's-bench bar and acquitted, and has since lain in Newgate at the suit of the Crown, is to be removed from the aforesaid Goal to the fleet prison. Ibid.

We hear that the Justices of the Peace and Inhabitants of St. George's Southwark, have presented a petition to the Government, that the bodies of Blewit and Frazier, which now hang in chains in St. George's fields, may be cut down and buried; and that the said Justices have unanimously resolved to suppress and rout all the vile inhabitants which are in the mint. Ibid.

On friday last at a general Seal held in the Court of Chancery, a permission was settled, allowing the Rev. Dr. Baker, the present Bishop of Norwich, to hold the Rectory of St Giles's in the fields in Commendam during his life. Ibid.

On thursday last. between 10 and 11 o' Clock at night, a Gentleman parted with some friends at the King's-arms tavern, Ludgate-hill, and going soberly to his lodgings, was picked up in Fleet-street, near Shoe-lane, by two women, who were joined by two informing Constables, and their accomplices, who beat and wounded the Gentleman in a cruel manner: But being carried before the Lord Mayor on friday and saturday last, and the fact appearing to be a gross abuse upon the Gentleman by several witnesses, the Informers were severally bound over to the Sessions; and we hear they will be prosecuted for the same. Post Boy.

On wednesday last her Grace the Dutchess of Bridgewater, Sister to his Grace the Duke of Bedford, was brought to bed of a Daughter, at his Grace's house at St. James's, to the great joy of that noble family. Ibid.

Yesterday the Rt. Hon. the Lord Walpole came to his house in Grosvenor-street, from his seat in Norfolk, but last from Newmarket. Ibid.

On saturday last his Royal Highness the Prince of Wales was at the new Theatre in the Haymarket, to see the Author's farce, and the Tragedy of Tom Thumb, which, we hear, was acted with very great applause. Daily Post.

My little Grandson says, he will make another Tragedy of Jack the Giant killer; and, indeed, I will be bold to say (though he is my Grandson) that no boy of 8 years old has a finer Genius. I do not doubt but it will be received with great applause.

Last saturday night, between 9 and 10 a Gentleman was set upon by 2 villains at the end of Charter-house lane, near Hick's-hall. One of them struck him in the face, and the other, named John Bullen, aiming at his head, struck him a violent blow in the neck with a short stick, but he not falling to the ground, siezed the latter, and crying out, the former made his escape, and assistance coming up, Bullen was secured. D. Journ.

The Earl of Godolphin's Gentleman was robb'd last wednesday morning in the Bury Coach, of 50 l. and a watch. Ibid.

Tuesday, April 28.

We are credibly informed, that what was published in the Post-boy of yesterday, being the 27th instant, in relation to a Gentleman who was pick'd up by two women near Shoe-lane, is a gross misrepresentation on of that affair, especially in the omission of the most material circumstances, which will soon appear to the confusion of the party most concerned, and the conviction of the honest Gentlemen whom he has abused by his false relation of that matter, and to the reputation of the persons whom he has endeavoured to calumniate, which may, perhaps, give occasion to the putting that useful admonition Audi alteral partem, inscribed in Golden letters over the Door of the council Chamber in Guildhall, into plain English. Courant, and Daily Post.

Wednesday, April 29.

In answer to a Paragraph inserted in the Daily Courant and Daily Post of yesterday, upon the Proceedings mentioned in the Daily Post-boy of monday, against some informing Constables for an Abuse upon a Gentleman; it is not doubted but that in proper time and place those proceedings will be justified, and every abettor of such Actions (if they have any shame left) will be confounded. Post Boy.

From the Pegasus in Grub street.

We are informed, that his Majesty has purchased the house of the L. Ashburnham, near Westminster-Abbey, for a Library; and that Sir Rob. Cotton's Manuscripts are actually removed thither. A night or 2 after the books were brought in, 6 or 7 fellows endeavoured to break into the house, where there were only 2 or 3 maid servants: but whether their design was on them, or on the books, or neither, is uncertain.

* * *

FOREIGN NEWS.

Thursday, April 23.

Yesterday arrived the Mails due from France, Flanders and Holland.

Florence, Apr. 8. N.S. The great Duke has, at length, assured Father Ascanio, the Spanish Minister, that he can not accede to the Treaty of Seville, nor admit Spanish Garrisons into his towns, lest he should thereby draw a war upon himself: and Father Ascanio has thereupon sent back the express he lately received from Spain. Cour. Post Boy, D. Post, and D. Journ.

Hanover, Apr. 15. N.S. At length the Congress of Brunswick is at an end. The prisoners on both sides are exchanged; and the Hanoverian deserters have been conducted hither. M. Hotze, Auditor General, and the other persons who assisted at that Congress, are also returned hither. It is written from Berlin, that the King's departure for the Camp at Muhlberg is fixed for the 29th of May. Ibid. Post Boy, D.Post, and Daily Journal.

Saturday, April 25.

Rome, Apr. 8. N.S. Pasquin has been at work, and made an epitaph on Signor Januario Giennelli, first Physician to the late Pope, to be put upon his Tomb-stone after his death, in the following word:

Eximio in Galenicis artibus viro,

Qui Beneventanorum Tyrante

Ac

Romanorum oppressione commotus

Benedictum XIII

Opportunis remediis, feliciori expeditione,

Ex hoc mundo dejecit

S.P.Q.R.

Emeritissimo Benefactori

Grati animi posuit.

Post Boy.

Berlin, Apr. 15. 'Tis assured that Sir Cha. Hotham received a few days ago, by an express, 3 letters from the Prince of Wales, for the King, Queen, and Princess Royal, which have been delivered to them, and received very acceptably: and many Jewellers are employed to make presents suitable for the occasion of the double-marriage, which is said to be near a Conclusion. D. Journal.

Granada, Apr. 7. The preparations for war are carried on without ceasing in the ports of this kingdom, and chiefly at Barcelona, Malaga and Cadiz, where many Men of War, Gallies and Transport ships, are lying ready for the Troops that are to be sent into Italy, whose number is now made to amount to 40,000 men. 25,000 firelocks have been sent from Navarre to Barcelona, and a great number of Implements for turning up the ground, together with many tenders for the fleet are getting ready. Lond. Even. Post.

Monday, April 27.

Yesterday arriv'd the Mail due from France.

Paris, May 3, N.S. They wrote from Rome, the 19. of April, that in the scrutiny of the 16, the Cardinal de Fleurey had eight Votes; and that on the 16 the sacred College sent orders to the Gunners to be at their posts by the 22; so that they concluded the Election would be over that day, or the day following. Cour. Post Boy, and Daily Post.

Wednesday April 29.

Paris, May 1. N.S. By what is written hither from Rome, People are divided in their Sentiments. Some imagine Cardinal Zondedari stands fairest for the Papal Chair; and others say Cardinal Colonna will be the Man. Post Boy.

Ships arriv'd at and sail'd from Great Britain, from April

Arrived 15, to April 22.

Ships Captains From For

Ap. 20. Philippa Osburn London

Unicorn Polkinbor.

Truro Hitchens

John Sloop Hill Rotterdam

Katherine Welch Newcastle

23. Wakefield Norton Oporto Hall

24. Exchange Markham ditto

Plymouth.

20. Vine Compton Cadiz

Lady Terresa Chatfield Port Mahon

Dartmouth.

Hunter Tizard London Jamaica

23. Will. & Mary Cox ditto

Will. & Mary Porter Holland

Susannah Anderson London

Dover

21. Sarah Bruce Lisbon Yarmouth

Granada Gray Rotterdam

Britannia Draper South Carol.

Hampshire Mocket Cadiz

Gravesend, bound home.

Richard & Sar. Nichols Lisbon

Emanuel Neilson Norway

Concordia Zeeman

John Hartley S. Remo

Dove Bourdon Malaga

Bermude Mer. Heron S. Kitts

Patientia Christian. Norway

Salvator Jacobson

22. Pearle Allison Lisbon

Benjamin Fry Syracusa

Oraravia Maxey Canaries

John & Betty Strahan Ostend

Packrat Bell Amsterdam

Ruby Colwell South Carol.

Nelly Jenkins Dunkirk

D. of Charos Pepper ditto

Hampshire Mocket Cadiz

Hannah Wolf Amsterdam

Han. & Zippo. Cranwell Rotterdam

Edw. and Eliz. Merrifield Ostend

Moore Moore Dieppe

Yarmouth Davy Norway

Will. and Deb. Story

Prosperous Ann Reed

Humphry Rape

23 White Pidgeon Boysman Bremen

Ann Scott Norway

25 Nile Matthews Alexandria

Britannia Howlatson Rotterdam

26 3 Merry Jacks Oranger Norway

Loudon Margerum

Baynard's Castle Walton

Godfrey Walkley

St. Ann Stall

Plough Brame Embden

Ursula Little Amsterdam

Catherine Rowlandson Rotterdam

Success Morfield Dort

27. Oldner Bowles Norway

Condonnel Dawkins

Ann & Eliz. Finch Petersburgh

Sailed

Falmouth.

Ap. 20. K. Georg. Packet Lisbon

Townsend Corunna

Lydia Sloop Condy Leghorn Boston

St. John Baptist Harvey Cadiz.

Dartmouth

Friendship Barker Lisbon Amsterdam

Seanymph Flower Africa

America Bell Barbadoes

Orphan Burford Lisbon

Success Stephens Guernsey Newcastle

Genoa Brame Cadiz Hamburgh

Bourlace Baily Hamburgh Salo

Y. of Flush. Guinea

Union Sparrow Wales

21. Susan. & Han. Bailey Rochel

Mary Pritty Shoreham

Royal Vineya. Brown Havre

Matthew Wallis S. Valeries

William Packet

23. Swan Downer Amsterdam

Endeavour Hartley Hull Malaga

Gravesend, bound out.

20. Winnagundy Myerhoff Bremen

Hen. & Priscil. Lucas France

Weltmore Hewet Sound

22. Speedwel Hooper

Rebecca Blank

Golden Kettle Fides Denmark

23. King David Jones Gibraltar

7 Sisters Winton France

24. Providence Maples

Batchelors Delig. Scutt Petersburgh

Granada Gibson Jamaica

24. Tryal Penhallow

Expedition Pidgeon Holland

Elizabeth Barnes

Friends Adven. Martin Baltick

Fellows Galley Paterson Africa

John Lecrass Jersey

26. Thom. & Ma. Bradford Malaga

Richard Pickman N. England.

Downs bound out.

21. India Merch. Barlow The Hope

Woodford Martin S. Kitts

25. Barbad. Factor Fell Barbadoes

Dolphin Webber Amsterdam

Pr. of Asturias Blackburn Jamaica

Neptune Weldon Oporto

A Ship for Guinea Unknown

Winds April 21. E.N.E. 22. N.E. 23. N.N.E. 24. N.E. 25. N.N.E. 26. S.W. 27. N.E.

Prices of Goods at Bear Key on Monday.

per Quarter

Wheat 18 to 26

Rye 13 to 14

Barley 10 to 13

Oats 9 to 14

Horse Beans 16 to 21

Hog Peas 15 to 19

Boiling Peas 12 to 24

Pale Malt 16 to 21

Brown Malt 16 to 19 6

Tares 20 to 26

Coals 21 s. to 22s. 6d. per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 20s. to 27s. per Hundred.

Hops 1729 30s. to 50s. per Hundred.

Rape Seed 14l. to 14l. 10s. per Last.

On Tuesday Stocks were

South-Sea 102 7 8ths. 102 3 qrs. Annuities 105 without the Dividend. Bank 141 1 8th. Bank Circulation 7 l. 5 s. Premium. India 187 3 qrs. Three per Cent. Annuity 95 1 8th. African 48 1 half. Royal Exchange Assurance 92. London Assurance 12 1 qr. York Buildings 16 3 8ths. English Copper 3 l. 10 s. Welch ditto 1 l. 13 s. India Bonds 5 l. 2 s. Prem. South Sea Bonds 4 l. 2 s. Premium.

The Course of the Exchange.

Amsterdam 34 7

Ditto at Sight 34 4

Rotterdam 34 7 a 8

Antwerp 35

Hamburgh 33 3 a 4

Paris at Sight 32 1 half

Bourdeaux at sight 32 3 8ths

Cadiz 42 1 half a 3 8ths

Madrid 42 3 qrs.

Bilboa 42 3 qrs. a 5 8ths.

Leghorn 51 3 8ths

Genoa 54 3 8ths

Venice 49

Lisbon 5s. 6d. 3/8

Porto 5s. 5d. 1/2

Dublin 12

* * *

ADVERTISEMENTS.

This Day is published,

Printed on a superfine Paper, in two Volumes in Quarto,

SOME Observations made in travelling through France, Italy, &c. in the Years 1720, 1721 and 1722: Containing a large and particular Account of the most remarkable Curiosities in those Countries, as well such as relate to their Manners, Customs, religious Orders, Ceremonies, &c. as likewise of their Architecture, Paintings, Sculpture, and other Antiquities, which are esteemed most worthy of the Observation of an English Traveller. With some short Remarks on the Air, Soil, Productions, Trade, Manufactures at several Places, occasionally interspersed. By Edward Wright, Esq; illustrated with 40 curious Drawings, design'd upon the Spot by the Author, and engrav'd on Copper by the best Hands.

Printed for Messieurs Ward and Wicksteed in the Inner Temple Lane.

* * *

Next Week will be published,

AN Anatomical and Mechanical Essay on the whole Animal Oeconomy in one View; wherein will be shewn the most wonderful Conduct of Nature, in all the Phænomena attending Human Bodies, with many curious subjects not commonly treated of. Necessary for all Lovers of Knowledge, particularly young Students in Anatomy, Physick and Surgery. With an Alphabetical Catalogue of Authors Names referred to on several Occasions in the following Treatise.

By JOHN COOK, Student in Physick, and late of the College of Edinburgh.

Printed for W. Meadows at the Angel in Cornhil.

* * *

Just Publish'd, [Price 4d.]

The History of Executions, Numb. II.

(To be continued.)

BEING a compleat Account of the following Malefactors executor Tyburn, Apr. 17, 1730, viz. of Ferdinando Shrimpton and Robert Drummond, for Robbery and Murther, Peter Rivers, for robbery on the Highway. Francis Hackabount, a Footpad. William Newcomb, for House-breaking: And of those that were then reprieved.

Likewise how Coll. Charteris was pardoned for a Rape committed on Anne Bond. To which is added,

A genuine Information taken by seven of his Majesty's Justices of the Peace for the County of York, against a large Gang of Cheats, Thieves and Robbers, who at Times, infest every Part of the Kingdom; with a Description of their Persons, Haunts and Tricks.

Printed by R. Newton, at St. John's-Gate, and sold by the Booksellers in Town and Country

Where may be had,

Numb. I. Containing the Life of Everet, a noted Highwayman, &c.

* * *

This Day is published,

THE Nurse's Guide; or, a right Method of bringing up young Children. To which is added, An Essay on preserving Health and Long Life, with a Treatise on the Gout.

By an eminent Physician

Printed for John Brotherton at the Bible in Cornhill, and Lawton Gilliver at Homer's Head in Fleet-street.

Where may be had,

A General System of Hydrostaticks and Hydraulicks, philosophical and practical. An Enquiry in the Original and Rise of Springs: Draughts and Descriptions of the best Engines for distributing Water for the supply of Country Seats, Cities, &c. illustrated and explained by 60 copper Cuts. Done by the best Hands. In 2 Vols. in 4to. By Mr. Switzer.

* * *

This Day is Publish'd,

AN Epistle to Philip Dormer, Earl of Chesterfield, occasioned by the late and present Situation of Affairs, in regard to War and Peace, by

Mr. BARFORD

Virg.Asperatum positis mitescent sæcula bellis.

——— Inter se firmabant fœdera dictus

Virg.Conspectu in media Procerum.

Printed for Lawton Gilliver at Homer's Head against St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet-street.

* * *

This Day is published,

OPERA'S with the MUSICK.

THE FASHIONABLE LADY; or, HARLEQUIN's OPERA, In the Manner of a Rehearsal. As it is performed at the Theatre in Goodman's-fields. Written by Mr. Ralph. With the Musick prefixed to each Song.

Also just published, the 3d Edition (with Alterations) of

The Lover's Opera. As it is acted at the Theatre-Royal in Drury-lane. Written by Mr. Chetwood. With the Musick prefixed to each Song.

Momus turned Fabulist, or, Vulcan's Wedding. An Opera. After the Manner of the Beggar's Opera, As it is performed at the Theatre-Royal in Lincoln's-Inn-Fields. With the Musick prefixed to each Song.

The Beggar's Opera. As it is acted at the Theatre-Royal in Lincoln's-Inn Fields. Written by Mr. Gay. The second Edition: To which is added the Overture in Score: With the Musick prefixed to each Song.

Love in a Riddle. A Pastoral. As it is acted at the Theatre-Royal by his Majesty's Servants. Written by Mr. Cibber. With the Musick to each Song.

The Village Opera. As it is acted at the Theatre-Royal by his Majesty's Servants. Written by Mr. Johnson. With the Musick prefix'd to each Song.

The Quaker's Opera. As it is performed at Lee's and Harper's Great Theatrical Booth in Bartholomew-Fair. With the Musick to each Song.

And also just publish'd, the fourth Edition, of

The Fair Circassian. A Dramatick Performance, Done from the Original by a Gentleman-Commoner of Oxford. To which are added several Occasional Poems, by the same Author.

All painted for J. WATTS at the Printing-Office in Wild-Court, near Lincoln's Inn Fields, and sold by the Booksellers both in Town and Country.

* * *

Books printed and sold by John Brotherton at the Bible in Cornhill.

Life of Oliver Cromwel, 8vo.

Collection of Novels, 12mo, 6 Vol.

D'Ano's Tales of the Fairies, 3 Vol. 12mo.

Free Thoughts on Religion.

Pilgrim's Progress in 8vo, with Cuts, 2 Vol.

Spectators, 8 Vol.

Prideaux Connection, 4 Vol.

Musical Misc. 4 Vol. 8vo.

The Dancing Master, by Mr. John Essex, 4to.

Boyer's Telemachus, 12mo.

Gay's Fables, 8vo.

Gordon's Geog. Gammar.

Boyer's Dictionary in 4to, or 8vo.

Blais's Sermons, 5 Vol. 8vo.

Shakespear's Plays.

Addison's Works, 4 Vol.

Lockyer's Trade to India

Abelard's Letters

Garth's Ovid, 2 Vol.

Plutarch's Lives, 8 Vol.

Don Quixot, 2 Vol.

Guardians, 2 Vol.

Ovid's Epistles

Dryden's Virgil.

* * *

This Day is published,

A Sermon preached at the Church of St. Lawrence Jury, London, March 31, 1730, during Easter Tuesday. By Joseph Trapp, D.D. at his entering on the Tuesday Lecture there. Published at the Request of the Vestry.

Printed for Lawton Gilliver at Home's Head, opposite to St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet-street.

Where may be had,

His Sermon on the 30th of January, preached at St. Paul's, being the Fast Day for the execrable murder of King Charles I. Published at the Request of the Lord Mayor and Sheriffs.

* * *

This Day are Publish'd,

PROPOSALS.

For Engraving by Subscription,

TWelve large PRINTS of the most stupendous and stately Fabricks of the Roman Empire, viz Amphitheatres, Theatres, Circus's, &c. By B. Roberts. Wherein will be exhibited their antient, as well as present State: With their Plans, Elevations, Sections, &c. in different Views, from the best Originals. And to each will be added, A brief historical Account for what these Fabricks were originally designed, who were their Founders and what Changes they have undergone, as far as they can be traced from History.

N.B. Each Print will be about 23 Inches long, and 18 broad. Each Subscriber is to pay half a Guinea down, and as much more at the Delivery of the Prints. They are in good Forwardness, and will be ready to be delivered about the Middle of December next. Subscribers for six Setts shall have a seventh gratis.

Subscriptions are taken in, and a Specimen may by seen at Mr. Brotherton's, Bookseller in Cornhill; Mr. Gillivers's, at Homer's Head in Fleet-street; Mr. Whirridge's, at the Corner of Castle-Alley, under the Royal Exchange, Mr. King's, a Print-shop, at the Globe in the Poultry; Mr. Samuel Sympson's, in Katherine-Street in the Strand; and Mr. Bird's, a Frame-maker, in Star-Alley in Fenchurch-Street.

* * *

LONDON: Printed for Capt. Gulliver and F. Cogan near the Temple, Mr. Jackson in Pall-Mall, and J. Brotherton near the Exchange, and Sold by J. Roberts in Warwick-Lane, where Letters and Advertisements, &c. are taken in. [Price Two Pence.]

