The Grub-street Journal — March 5th, 1730

Exported from Wikisource on May 12, 2026

Numb. IX.

The Grub-street Journal.

* * *

Thursday, MARCH 5. 1730.

* * *

——— In me acui sceleratos cernitis enses:

Quos prohibete precor; facinusque repellite. ——— Ovid. Met. L. XV.

To Mr. Bavius, Secretary of the Grub-street Society.

SIR,

Cambridge, March 1, 1730.

YOUR Journals were a very agreeable present to me, on two accounts: 1st, as they informed me of the welfare of an old Friend; and, 2dly, as they entertained me with several learned Dissertations. I long to see the Antiquities of your Society, which you tell us, in your Introduction, One of your learned Members is preparing to publish. Pray, do not fail of letting me know by your next, in what forwardness that Work is. I am mightily pleased with your Collegue Mr. Quidnunc. He saves me the Labor improbus of reading the other Papers, by the judicious Collection he makes from them. His Remarks discover a good Critical Genius: and had the honest Gentleman had the advantage of a learned Education, I fancy, be might have made a good Critic.

For my own part, my leisure time has been of late chiefly spent in correcting Milton: who has hitherto appeared with as many faults, as any of the antient Poets. This may, in a great measure, be attributed to his unhappy Blindness: which occasioned him to make use of an Amanuensis; who, no doubt, often mistaking the sound of his voice, wrote a word of near affinity in the sound, tho' in the sense aliene from what the Author intended. Thus our vulgar Editions have in the first book

——— on the secret top

of Oreb.

for which, no doubt, Milton said on the sacred top. A Little after we read,

——— Him the Almighty Power

Hurl'd headlong flaming from th' Ethereal skie,

With hideous ruin and combustion down

To bottomless perdition, there to dwell

In Adamantine Chains. ———

Can you bear this? Is Adamant a substance fit to make Chains of? But how plain and intelligible is it, if we read In Adam, and in Chains? This frees us from all obscurity immediately. In the same book we have

——— The glimmering of these livid flames.

Livid, you know, is what we call black and blue, such as is the colour of bruised Flesh: and who ever saw a flame of that colour? Surely Milton designed living flames; an easy Error of the Amanuensis.

There are other mistakes which may be imputed to the Transcriber or Printer, meer blunders; notwithstanding they have run through all the Editions. In the first book it is always read

We may with more successful hope resolve

To wage by Force or Guile eternal War.

Flat Nonsense! successful hope is ridiculous. If it is attended with Success, it is more than Hopel it is absolute Certainty. I dare assure you, it should be read

We may with more success, full hope, resolve, &c.

An easy alteration, by which the sense is clear'd up at once. Besides the mentioning Success first, and Hope afterwards is a pretty Anticlimax.

In the second book, the common Editions read

Our torments also may in length of time

Become our Elements; these piercing Fired

As soft as now severe; our temper chang'd

Into their temper, which must needs remove

The sensible of pain. ———

Here sensible is made a Substantive, which never was done by any Author; and I dare say, not by Milton. Alter it boldly,

The sense I bear of pain.

In the beginning of the third book, when he is lamentting his Blindness, they make him say

So thick a drop serene hath quencht their orbs;

a downright Blunder, as if a drop could be thick and serene (or clear) at the same time. An ingenious Friend of ours would read so thin a drop serene: but I cannot agree with him. I rather think the words are misplaced, and ought to stand thus;

So thick a drop hath quencht their orbs serene.

About the latter end of the fourth book, we have

——— Satan alarm'd,

Collecting all his might dilated stood,

Like Teneriff or Atlas unremov'd:

His Stature reach'd the Sky; and on his Crest,

Sat Horror plum'd.

A very pretty Image truly! as if Milton would ever have thought of dressing Horror up with a plume of Feathers. I'll warrant you he spoke it,

——— on his Crest

Sat Horror plumb.

Horror sitting plumb upon Satan's Crest gives us an Image really dreadful. Besides, plumb is a word made use of by our Poet in other places: for instance, in the first book;

——— All unawares

Flutt'ring his pennons vain plumb down he drops,

Ten thousand fathom deep.

A little after this we find,

——— The Fiend looks up, and knew

His mounted Scale aloft. ———

Very pretty! if his Scale was mounted, it must be aloft: but sure Milton could never be guilty of such tautology. Depend upon it he designed,

His mounted Scale aloof.

Seeing it aloof, or at a distance, gives us an Idea of its being mounted to some purpose. I could give you some hundreds of Emendations: but as I design to publish an Edition of this Author, I shall content myself with giving you only one more at present. It is in the seventh book, where speaking of the Creation of Fish, he is made to say,

——— Part, single or with mate,

Graze the Sea weed their pasture; and thro' Groves

Of Coral stray ———

I wonder any man can have patience to read such stuff. Here the Sea is represented like a Garden over-run with weeds. Who ever heard of weeds growing upon the Sea? Take my word it ought to be,

Graze the Sea Wood, &c.

Our Author is speaking here evidently of the Coral, which is a woody or shrubby Substance, according to Pliny, L. xxxii C. 2. Forma est ei Fruticis, color viridis. And tho'it is hard, when brought to us; yet it is soft, and eatable under water. We have Ovid's Authority that it is mollis herba sub undis: and Pliny says of its Berries, that they are candide sub aqua, ac molles; and adds, exempta consistim durantur & rubescunt, quasicorna sativa specie atque magnitudine. It was this wood or shrub then that the Fish graz'd ; not the Sea weed, which has no Existence, except in the Brains of those who cannot see Wood for Trees. Pray, my good Friend, let me have your Journals every week; for shall not trouble my self with any other News paper. I am,

Yours affectionately,

Zoilus.

* * *

LONDON.

Thursday, Feb. 26.

Yesterday, at the sittings at Guildhall in the Court of King's-Bench, came on a Tryal between Miss Holt, of Hackney, Plaintiff, and Knox Ward, Esq; Defendant, about the latter's promising to marry her, after a long Courtship, but afterwards marrying another. The Contract being proved by Letters, under his hand, the Jury brought in a verdict for Mrs. Holt of 1000 l. Courant.

The Daily Journal adds that Mr. Ward's Council urged, that as the Lady was not of full age at the time of the Promise, the Engagement on her side could not be binding, and therefore he could not be intitled to an Action for the Breach of it on his; which point he is at liberty to argue before the Court of King's-Bench.

The same day the Sessions began at the Old Baily, when the following Malefactors were convicted capitally, viz. Francis Hackabout, for robbing Aaron Durell, and George Baily of money, a watch and other things; Peter Rivers and John Carter, for assaulting Henry Howard on the Highway, and feloniously taking from him 3 s. 4d in money, a pair of silver buckles, and other things; and Richard Hanson, for robbing Daniel Beaufort on the High-way of a bever hat, and a rose hat-band value 20 s. Ibid.

The Daily Journal reads Heckerby for Hackabout.

Last night his Grace the Archbishop of Canterbury lay at the point of Death, at his Palace at Lambeth. Post Boy.

About a quarter past 10 o'clock on monday night Last, Mr. Cuthbert, a noted Peruke-maker, at the upper end of Pall-mal, was set upon by three Street robbers, in Fenchurch-street. Two of them took him by the Collar, and demanded his Purse; he said he had none; the other came up, and presented a Pistol to his breast, and swore if he did not deliver his money, &c. he was a dead Man; whereupon the other two searched him, and found Guineas in his Fob, and made off with their Booty undiscover'd. Ibid.

On saturday night last, a Woman well dress'd was taken out of the New River, drowned, near Sadler's Wells; and on monday she was buried at Clerkenwell. On tuesday she was taken up and searched, upon suspicion of her having been murder'd, and was immediately put into the Ground again: and we do not hear that it is known who she was. Ibid.

The walking match which was compleated Last friday noon, being performed in 10 minutes less than the time stipulated, by a Poulterer of Leadenhall-market, who walked 100 miles in less than 27 hours, occasioned the promoting divers other Matches of the like kind, which were put by by the Constables. Flying Post

They tell us from Wootton-under edge, that a Person won a wager there, by eating 4 pounds of Bread, a quartern of Potatoes, 11 Pies and Puddings. He was to eat all this in half an hour, and performed it in 4 minutes less than the time. Ibid.

Last week came on the Election of a Member for Bidport, in the room of Col. James Pelham, the Candidates were Mr. Dukes and Mr. Bonnet; the former was chosen, Mr. Bonnet having declined the Poll. One Col. Broadness fell down in an apoplectick fit, and died soon after he had polled. Even. Post, St. James's Even. and Lond. Even.

The Scheme for laying open the East India trade (of which we gave an account in our last) hath met with a general probation, and a petition for that purpose to the House of Commons hath been signed by near 200 Merchants, and will, 'tis probable, obtain the sanction of the Legislature, as the publick will shortly have an Annuity of 10,000 l. as an increase to the sinking fund, for the disposition of Parliament; which, valued at twenty five years purchase, the Rate other savings to the publick have been valued at, will be 2,400,000 l. consequently so much will be gained to the nation. And

As the laying open the trade to trade to Africa has been attended with manifold advantages to the publick, the Indian trade, when laid open under proper Regulations, will be follow'd with the like, and greater advantages; as will appear by observing,

I. That it will necessarily occasion a larger exportation to India of the product and Manufactures of Great Britain.

II. That it will give employment to a much greater number of Ships and Seamen.

III. That it will greatly lower the price of all East-india Commodities, consum'd by the people of Great Britain.

IV. That it will give us an opportunity of supplying foreign markets cheaper, and in great quantities, with East-India Commodities, whereby to gain to us some, and to preserve us other branches of Traffick, especially on the Coast of Africa, in America, and some parts of Europe.

V. That it will necessarily advance the duties of customs and excise, and consequently tend to the lessening the national debt, and thereby be a means of reducing such of the Taxes as are the most burdensome, or are weight upon the poor, or a discouragement to our manufactures.

VI. That it is to be presum'd a great advantage may arise by the employing our Ships in Freight, only from one port of the East-indies to another, more than has been practiced by the present East-India Company, which will be so much entire profit brought home at last to the Nation.

VII. That it will prevent persons that are acquainted with the India Trade, from being under the necessity, for want of employment here, to seek it in other Nations of Europe, and be the means of bringing home those who are already abroad on that account. Whitehall Even.

His Majesty having considered of the report of the general Court Martial held last week on Capt. Singleton and Capt. Reynolds for fighting a Duel lately in Hyde-park, the former not appearing to have been the Aggressor, is order'd to repair to his post in the land of minorca. London Evening.

This day William Cowper, Esq; was rechosen Chairman to the bench of Justices for the county of Middlesex. Ibid.

On monday last Robert Kemp, Esq; eldest Son and Heir of Sir Robert Kemp, of Ubbelton-hall in Suffolk, Bar. was elected Member of Parliament for Orford in Suffolk, in the room of Dudley North, Esq; deceas'd, without opposition. Ibid

Friday, Feb. 27.

Conrad Furst, alias Freeburg, was brought down to the Sessions House to take his Tryal, but died before it came on. He was the Person who broke out of the Poultry Compter, and was afterwards taken in Cornwal, for setting fire to the House of Dr. Douglas in Covent-garden, and robbing him of several things of value. Courant.

Yesterday, between 12 and 1 o' clock at noon, came on the Tryal of Col. Francis Chartres, at the Sessions House in the Old Baily, upon an Indictment for committing a Rape on the Body of Anne Bond, his servant Maid. The Prosecutor appeared in Court, and proved that on the 24th of October last she was hired by the Colonel to be his servant; that he had lived with him several days before she knew who he was; and that on the 10th of November following, he sent for her up into his Room to make his Fire: when he threw her on a Couch, and she crying out, he pull'd off his cap and stopp'd her mouth; and then did the crime for which he was indicted; and several other Depositions concurring with Mrs. Bond's, and three several persons whom he had formerly lived with, appearing and giving her the character of a vertuous and religious young Woman, the Jury, after about 3 quarters of an hour's stay, returned, and brought in their Verdict Guilty of the Indictment: whereupon he was secured by the Keeper of Newgate immediately. Post Boy.

The Courant informs us, that his Grace the Duke of Argyle, the Duke of Manchester, Sir Robert Clifton, and others of the Nobility and Gentry were at the Sessions House to hear the said Tryal.

The Daily Post says, he brought several witnesses in his Defence, who were his Servants; but their Depositions contained many Contradictions and Inconsistencies: and adds, that Mr. Kettleby was of Council for the Plaintiff, and Mr. Strange for the Defendant; and that there were present two nights of the Garter, besides other Persons of Distinction. After he was carried up to Newgate (continues our Author) he seem'd greatly dispirited. His Goods, Chatters, Lands and Tenements are forfeited by the said Verdict. The Daily Journal says, his chief Defence was a sham Letter sworn to by his Footman to come from her, which was proved to be a Forgery.

On 19th instant died, and was yesterday decently interred in Pancras Church-yard, the Rev. Mr. George Browne, Master of Arts, a Nonjuring Clergyman, aged 80 years. He was Minister of Hilman's in Scotland before the Revolution, deprived of his living thereupon; and was one of the first Clergyman there that, after the Revolution, officiated in a publick Congregation according to the Liturgy of the Church of England, which so inraged the Presbyterians, that one day they prevailed on a File of Musqueteers to fire in at his windows. He was afterwards, on account of his principles, imprison'd, try'd, and banish'd Scotland, from whence he came to London, where he exercised his function in private, and taught the Mathematicks, in some parts of which (especially in numbers) he excelled to a very eminent degree. He was inventor of the famous Rotula, and author of the Arithmetica Infinia, &c. He was a gentleman of great learning and exemplary piety, and shew'd a Constancy equal to all his misfortunes. Post Boy and D. Post.

Yesterday the Court of Assistants of the Merchant Taylors Company chose the Rev. Mr. Brooker undermaster of Merchant Taylors School, in the room of the Rev. Mr. Fayting, who succeeds the Rev. Mr. Day, deceased, as second Master of the said School. D. Post.

On thursday last died at his lodgings near Leicester fields, Mr. Hintz, a German gentleman, who had been here some time to sollicite the Crown in behalf of the protestants in the palatinate, for some Lands in north America, where they desire to settle themselves under his Majesty's government. Ibid.

Yesterday a great number of servants were sent to Lambeth Palace to inquire after the Archbishop of Canterbury's Health, who was reported in one of the Papers to be at the point of death, when his Grace was perfectly well, as he had been for many months past. Ibid.

Saturday, Feb. 28.

The following Malefactors were yesterday convicted capitally at the the Court in the Old Baily, viz. Stephen Dowdell for privately stealing a diamond ring of considerable value; Ferdinando Shrimpton, and Robert Drummond, for Robberies on the Highway, and the murder of Mr. Tyson's Coachman. Courant.

Capt. Fitzgerald was found guilty of Manslaughter, for killing a Lieutenant in a Duel, and was burnt in the hand accordingly, and discharged. Ibid.

On monday March the 9th will be paid at the Pay-office in Broad-street, to the Seamens lawful Attornier, the two months pay in six due on board the following Ships, viz.

Dolphin, ending June 30, 1729.

Lime, ending December 13, 1728.

Ditto, ending June 30, 1729. Ibid.

Soon after the Jury had brought in their Verdict, on thursday, against Col. Chartres, the Sheriffs of this City and County of Middlesex, as also the High Bailiff of Westminster, sent persons to take possession of what they could find of his effects, which are become forfeited. He is said to be worth about 200,000 l. Ibid.

On thursday night about 12 o' clock, a servant maid of Col. Chartres fir'd a pistol out of the window one pair of stairs, and shot one of the Constables in the arm. Post Boy.

We are inform'd, that by the verdict given against Col. Chartres, all his personal estate is confiscated, viz. what money is in the several Stocks, as Bank, South Sea, and India, and all his effects in the City, to the Sheriffs of London for the time being; and all in Westminster, to Mr. Morrice, the High Bailiff; who, we hear, took possession of the Colonel's House and effects in New Bond-street yesterday. Ibid.

Last thursday night the officers of William Morrice, Esq; High Bailiff of the liberty of Westminster, went to sieze the goods and chattels of Francis Chartres, Esq; at his House in great George-street, Hanover-square, on his having been convicted of Felony at the Old Baily, but were deny'd admittance by the servants, who made a vigorous defence; one of them, a Woman, fired a pistol from a window, and wounded a Beadle in the breast; yesterday the officers enter'd, and seiz'd vast quantities of rich plate and houshold furniture, which were carrying away all the day in Carts to an empty House of Mr Morrice's in Old Bond-street: Mr. Chartres's Berlin, which he won at the Spaw, together with twenty Horses, and his Chariot, were also seiz'd and carry'd away to Ormond Meuse. Daily Post. And

Yesterday the Sheriffs of London forbid any transfer or payment of at the South-sea House and other Companies belonging to the said Convict. Ibid.

Thursday Evening last arriv'd Mr. Maley, one of his Majesty's Messengers, from France, with dispatches from Stephen Poyntz, Esq; his Majesty's Ambassador at that Court. Courant.

On tuesday next his Majesty's Yatch the Queensborough will be paid off to the 23d of October last at the Pay-office in Broad Street. Ibid.

Yesterday notice was given to all Peers, Peeresses, and Privy Counsellors, that the mourning is to be changed on sunday the 1st of March next, viz. the Ladies to wear black Silk or Velvet, colour'd Ribbons, Fans, and Tippets. The Men to continue in Black, and to wear colour'd Swords and Buckles. Post Boy.

Yesterday morning dy'd, at her House in Dover-street, the most noble Henrietta, Dutchess-dowager of Boston. She was youngest Daughter to Sir Robert Needhamn, of Lambeth, in the County of Surrey, Kat. and had issue by the late Duke of Boston, an only Son, viz. the Lord Nassau Pawlet, who is a Knight of the Bath and Representative in Parliament for the Borough of Lymington, and Auditor of the Exchequer in Ireland. By her death her Jointure, being 2000 l. per Annum, goes to the Duke of Bolton. Daily Post.

The Daily Journal says, she was Sister to Brigadier Crofts, and formerly one of the Ladies of the Bed-chamber to her late majesty Queen Anne.

St. James's, Feb 17. His Majesty has been pleased to appoint Roe Port, Esq; to be Sheriff of the County of Derby. Gazette.

Last night about 7 o' clock dy'd the Rev. Dr. Altham, Rector of St. Botolph's Bishopgate. Lond. Even.

We hear that the Trustees for the Duke of Wharton have seiz'd on the Manor, of Wooburne in Buckinghamshire, Col. Chartres having a mortgage of 18000 l. on the said estate. Ibid.

Orders are gone to the Sheriff of Lancashire to seize on the said Col. Chartres three Lordships in that County, viz. Hornby-castle, Ormskirk, and another within 2 miles of Lancaster, all amounting to the yearly value of 4000 l. Ibid.

His Man, John Gourly, (commonly called trusty Jack) is gone express to Scotland for the Earl of Weems, who marry'd the said Colonel's only Child. Ibid.

We hear great Intercession has been made to save the Colonel's life, but as yet without effect. He is reckon'd worth 200,000 l. Ibid.

We hear an Appeal is lodg'd against the said Colonel. Ibid.

Monday, March 2.

Yesterday being the anniversary of her Majesty's birth, when he entered the 48th year of her age, there was a numerous Court at the St. James's to congratulate her Majesty on that occasion; the Bishop of St. David's preached before their Majesties in the Chappel Royal, the Guns in the Park, and the Tower were fired at one of the Clock. Courant.

On saturday Mr. Huggins moved the Court at the Old Bailey that he might be admitted to bail. The Council for the Prisoner urged his being bailed, as well on account of delays in the King's Counsel in not settling the Special Verdict sooner, as of his ill state of health in Newgate. The King's Council insisted, that there had been no affected delays in them; that the Prisoner was at this time in the Press-yard in Newgate, which is a very wholesome place, and not a Dungeon, like that wherein Arne perished; and that there was no precedent where a Defendant had been admitted to Bail on a Special Verdict for murder. The Court, after hearing the arguments on both sides, declared their opinion, that the Prisoner could not be admitted to Bail. The Council for the King were, Mr. Serjeant Cheshyre, Mr. Sollicitor General, Mr. Lee, and Mr. Holland; for the Prisoner, Mr. Serjeant Darnell, Mr. Serjeant Eyre, and Mr. Strange. Post Boy and Daily Post.

On saturday morning, and not before, died the Rev. Dr. Altham, Rector of St. Botolph's Bishopsgate, in a very advanced age. He was a Gentleman of an exemplary life and piety, and as a great an ornament to the Christian Religion, as any in his time, and died very much regretted by all who had the happiness of his acquaintance, and more especially by his Parishioners, with whom he had been upwards of 20 years. Post Boy.

On friday night, about 11, died the Rev. Dr. Altham, Archdeacon of Middlesex, and Rector of St. Botolph's Bishopsgate. Daily Post.

On friday night died the Rev. Dr. Altham, Archdeacon of Middlesex, and Rector of St. Betaph's Bishopsgate. Daily Journal.

Yesterday morning, about 4 o'clock, the Post Boy with the Bristol Mat was attack'd and robb'd between Knightsbridge and Kensington,, by one foot-pad, who knock'd hint off his horse, and bound him; and cutting open the Mail, he took all the Bristol, and several other Bags, and put them into a Sack, and put them on the horse's back, and made off undiscover'd. The horse was found about 7 in the morning in Long-acre. P. Boy.

Tomorrow being the 3d of March, his Majesty's yatch the Queenborough will be paid to the 31st of October 1729, at the Pay-Office in Broad street. Ibid.

Last saturday night the Sessions ended at the Old Bailey, when the 10 following Malefactors received sentence of death, viz. Francis Chartres, Esq; for a Rape committed by him the 10th of last November, on the body of Anne Bond; Richard Hanson, for robbing a French Clergyman in the street, of his hat, &c. Robert Drummond (Brother of Drummond executed 2 Sessions ago) and Ferdinando Shrimpton, for the murder of Mr. Tyson's Coachman, of Hackney, and for robbing on the Highway; Francis Hackabout, for robbing Aaron Durell and George Bailey on the Highway, of their money, watch, and other things; Peter Rivers and John Curter, for robbing Henry Howard on the Highway, of 3 s. and 4d. Stephen Dowdel, for feloniously stealing a gold ring out of a Goldsmith's Shop, near Charing-cross; Richard Newcomb, for Burglary, in breaking into a house in Fleet-street, with intent to rob Mr Benjamin Hoare, the Banker; and Elizabeth Doyle for returning from Transportation. Ibid.

Elizabeth Doyle had no Tryal, she having pleaded guilty to the indictment. Ibid.

Col. Chartres's Counsel moved the Court before sentence was passed, for the Indictment to be read in Latin, which was indulged and complied with; but there not being any flaw in it, no motion was made in arrest of judgment, and the Colonel had sentence passed on him with the other Malefactors Ibid.

The Colonel is lodged in the same Room in the Press-yard where Major Oneby was formerly confined. D. Jour.

Five were burnt in the hand. 3 order'd to be whipt, and 30 for Transportation. Post Boy.

One of the Convicts (a Woman) who was burnt in the hand, was order'd by the court to be turned out immediately, without paying fees; but she was in so miserable a condition with poverty and sickness, that she was not able to walk, which the Court being inform'd of, directed the parish of St Sepulchre's to take care of her till she should be passed into her own parish. Ibid.

When the Sessions ended on saturday night at the Old Bailey, 19 persons were put by till the next Sessions by reason that Mr. Baron Thompson and Mr. Serjeant Ruby set out this morning for the Norfolk Circuit. One of them that was postponed, was Dalton, for robbing a Dutch Merchant of 20 l. and other things of value. Ibid.

Last friday night, one Allaway, a Journeyman Barber, was knocked down as he was returning out of Moorfields into Chiswell-street, by several Street-Robbers, who robbed him of about 57 s. which he had then been to receive for a wig for his Master. Ibid.

Last saturday 2 men were committed to Newgate, being charged on oath with having committed several Robberies on the Highway. Ibid.

Tuesday, March 3.

Sunday night last one Thomas Howard, a Prisoner in the New Goal in Southwark, having some words with another Prisoner there, gave him a desperate wound under the left Pap, insomuch that his Ribs were plainly to be seen; but it is thought it will not prove mortal. Cour.

"On Sunday, Feb. 22. just 4 days after the death of the Morning Post, the Post Man died at the same house in the Old Baily. He was the most ancient of our Political Members, a zealous Protestant, descended from a French Huguenot, and had made a great figure in the World for many years. Since the infirmities of age came upon him, he kept himself alive chiefly by riding into the Country: but his Horse growing old, as well as himself, he had been obliged for some time to lay aside that exercise. Since Christmas he applied himself chiefly to the resolving of Riddles and cramp Questions: but a sedentary life soon hurried him to his grave. He was decently interred in Tyndall's burying Ground near Moorfields, last Thursday night. The Pall was supported by The Flying Post, The Weekly Journal, Appleby's Weekly Journal, The British Journal, The Universal Spectator, and The Weekly Medley. The chief Mourner was his natural Son Oedipus; who since his death has taken upon him the Style and Title of The Post Man re-mounted."

We hear, that Col. Ch———s set out this morning at 5 o'clock for Scotland, from his late habitation.

FOREIGN NEWS.

Thursday, Feb. 26.

Venice, Feb. 11. Signior Anthony Odoli, having been convicted of Maleversation in the management of the publick money, was hang'd the day before yesterday, pursuant to the Sentence that had been passed upon him by the Council of Ton. Daily Post, the Even. and St James's Even. Posts.

Munich, Feb. 13. 8000 Men of his Electoral Highness's Troops are on the point to begin to march but it is not said whither they are to go. D. Post, and the Even. Post.

Stockholm, Feb. 16. The King has promised to Mr. Hen. Konig, Banker of this City, and his Friends, that the commerce of the East-Indies and China, &c. shall go forwards; and there shall be erected 3 Chambers, viz. one at the City, another at Gottenburgh, and a third at Hamburg. The two Ships which are to go now, are called the King of Sweden, and the Sweden. They are mounted with 36 Guns each, and are above 350 Tons Burthen. The Even. St. James's, and Whitehall Even. Posts.

Copenhagen, Feb. 21. Last week those concerned in the East India Company had a meeting about trading to China, on which account several Sums of money have been subscrib'd anew, and the Scheme will be publish'd speedily. Ibid.

This day we had a Mail from France.

Paris, March 4. By an extraordinary Courier dispatch'd from Rome by Cardinal de Polignac, we have receiv'd advice that the Pope died there the 21st of Last month; and that his Holiness had held a Consistory on the 8th, in which he created a Cardinal, M. Salviati. Brother of the Duke of that name. The Ev. and Lond. Ev. Posts.

The number of the Men of War that have been fitted out in the Port of Brest, and which are ready to put to sea, is much greater than was at first reported; for besides one vessel of 120 Guns, two of 92 Guns each, two of 68 Guns each, three of 62 Guns each; there are several others of 54 and 48, and 12 Fregates. The Ev. Post.

The Foudroyrant 120 Guns, the Sceptre and Bourbon, each 92, the Elizabeth and Lys 66 each, the Jason, Content, and Grafton, each 60. Whitehall and Lond. Even. Posts.

Friday, Feb. 27.

Rome, Feb. 11. N.S. On the 8th instant, the Pope held a private Consistory, where he promoted Signior Alamanno Salvioti to the Purple, at the recommendation of the Chevalier de St. George. Father Vincent, a Cordelier, who is taken to have the gift of Prophecy, having been sent for some days ago by a Commissary of Provision's Wife, who was very ill, he told her, after he had been comforting her a while, that she should die in 3 hours; and added that her husband, tho' then in health, should follow her the next day, which happen'd accordingly. Courant.

Florence, Feb. 11, 'Tis said this Court has proposed to the Allies of Hanover, to receive Don Carlos into the City of Sienna, but without any foreign troops. And they add, that this Proposal was made with the consent of the Imperial Court. Courant, Post Boy.

Vienna, Feb. 18. We hear the Emperor is so far from stopping the troops that were marching to Italy, that he has actually taken 6000 Saxons into his service, and is treating about a great many more. Hence we conclude a War is at hand. Courant.

Genoa, Feb. 18. Signior Pallavicino is set out for Vienna, to treat with that Court about the equipping of some Men of War for the service of his Imperial Majesty. Some Bankers in this City are, on the other hand, in treaty with the Spanish Ministry, about furnishing the troops of that Nation, expected in Italy with what money they shall want. Courant, Post Boy.

Paris, March 4. A Cause is now trying in the Great Chamber, between Mad. Du Bois, and the Heirs of her late Husband, who died immensely rich. They pretend, that the Child this Lady had in 1714 was not M. Du Bois's, but M. Turpins, by whose name he was baptiz'd, and by her maiden name. Besides, she has not produc'd her Contract in Marriage with M. Du Bois, nor the publishing of the Banns. Courant.

Saturday, Feb. 28.

}}

Seville, Feb. 9. The Preparations are continued here for transporting the 6000 Spaniards into Italy, who are to take Possession of the Towns of Tuscany and Parma. This Court has lately received an Express from Florence, with some Proposals of the Great Duke upon that Subject. Count Koninsek has received an Express from Vienna, who is said to have brought his recall. Courant, D. Post. 4 Even. Posts.

Brasil, Feb. 26. The Imperial Troops now on their march are daily expected at Roveredo; after which they will proceed thro' the Venetian Pass of Chiusa to the Mantuan. Courant, the Even. Post, and Whitehall Ev.

Vienna, Feb. 22. The Turks have resumed their military Preparations. They have now about 30,000 Men in Bosnia, who are continually in motion, to what end is not yet known; but we are apprehensive they would lie under a great temptation to invade the Emperor's Territories, if the Christian Princes should fall out among themselves; and for this reason, orders are sent to the Imperial Generals on that side, to be well upon their Guard; and especially to keep a good look-out for spies. Orders are likewise sent to the Viceroy of Naples and the Governor of Milan, to let nothing be wanting for their defence; and to take particular care about the quartering of the additional forces, the whole body of which, to the number of 25 or 30,000 Men, will be with them very speedily. The news of the Czar's death has reached this Court and is so much the more mortifying, in regard General Weisbach, who lately set out on his return to Moscow, had it in commission not only to regulate the march of the 30,000 Auxiliaries the Czar was to furnish by Treaty, but to offer as many more to be at the Emperor's service. However his Imperial Majesty has that Account balanced to him, by the offer of another crown'd Head, of 30,000 of his best Troops, when or wherever his Imperial Majesty shall please to command them, upon the mortgage of some Principalities in Silesia. Courant, Post Boy.

As for the News from Hamburgh, that the Duke of Holsteyn's Ministers at Moscow had protested against the Succession of the new Czarina; and that no notice was taken of so extraordinary a step; we can hardly believe either the one or the other. Post Boy.

Hague, March 7. It is written from Hanover, that all things were in a readiness to take the field and that the Regency had received orders from London, to pick out 2500 Men from among the Invalids, who are in at condition to serve, in order to form them into Companies, and to put them into Garrison in the fortified Towns. D. Post, Lond. Even.

They write from Vienna, that in a particular Conference which the Ministers of Great Britain and Holland had with Prince Eugene of Savoy, he declared to them, that the Emperor would never accede to the Treaty of Seville, without some alterations. D. Post, D. Journ.

Vienna, Feb. 22. It is said the King of Prussia has offered his Imperial Majesty 30,000 Men, to be employed where he shall think fit, and to maintain them at his own expence, on Condition of having a Mortgage of some Principalities in Silesia. The Troops which are on their march to Italy, make but small journies, because of the great Snows. The 2d Body of Troops designed for that Country, have received new orders to hold themselves ready to march. It is assured the Emperor has resolved to have in Sicily an Army of 25,000 Men; and orders are sent thither, as well as to Milan and Naples, to put all the Fortresses in a good state of Defence. D. Journ. St. James's Even. Post.

Monday, March. 2.

Dresden, Feb. 22. The King of Prussia arrived here the 18th about 10 at night, and assisted [was present] at the marriage of the Countess Cosel. The 2 Kings embraced, and sate at Table, with the Company consisting of about 50 Persons. After supper there was a Ball: and the 2 Kings staid till 3 in the morning. The next day their Majesty's dined and supped together, and his Polish Majesty prevailed with his Prussian Majesty to accept of a Lodging in his Palace. Ibid.

Berlin, Feb. 28. On saturday Last, the King of Prussia returned to Potsdam from Dresden, and this day at noon came to Town. Ibid.

Tuesday, March 3.

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from Holland.

Naples, Feb. 14. N.S. Last week the Collateral Council held an extraordinary Assembly with the Board of Treasury, where the Viceroy delivered a Petition received by Express from the Emperor, requesting an extraordinary Subsidy of 100,000 Ducats, at the critical Juncture. Cour.

Milan, Feb. 18. The sickness is more rife here than ever: 6 of our principal Physicians are laid up with it. Courant.

Vienna, Feb. 25 The second Body of Troops, which is to march to Italy, consisting of 19 Battalions, makes in the whole 13300 men. The Court has received a Courier from Constantinople, with the confirmation of Prince Thamas's having several times defeated the Troops of Sultan Efreff; that he was advanced towards Ispahan; and that the Grand Signior, upon the instances of Efreff's Minister, had resolved to send him a considerable succour to assist him against Prince Thamas. Daily Post

The Course of the Exchange.

Amsterdam 34 a 35

Ditto at Sight 34 2

Rotterdam 34 5

Antwerp 35 3

Hamburgh 33 2

Paris at Sight 32 7 8ths a 3 4ths

Bordeaux at sight 32 5 8ths a 1 half

Cadiz 42 5 8ths

Madrid 43 1 8th

Bilboa 42 7 8ths

Leghorn 52

Genoa 54 7 8ths

Venice 48 7 8ths

Lisbon 5 s. 6 d. 3/4

Porto 5 s. 5 d. 1/8

Dublin 12

Prices of Corn at Reading and Basingstoke.

At Reading At Basingstoke.

Wheat p. Load 7 1. to 9 l. 5 s. 6l. to 8 l. 5 s.

Barl. p. Quar. 19 s. to 1 l. 2 s. 18 s. to 1 l.

Oats 17 s. 16 s. to 19 s. 6 d.

Horse beans 1 l. 6 s. 1 l. 8 s.

Hag peas 1 l. 7 s. 1 l. 7 s. 6 d.

White Peas 1 l. 12 s.

Prices of Goods at Bear Key on Monday.

per Quarter

Wheat 22 to 30

Rye 14 to 15

Barley 13 to 16

Oats 9 to 14 6

Horse Beans 20 to 26

Hog Peas 18 to 20

Boiling Peas 23 to 26

Pale Malt 17 to 22

Brown Malt 18 to 21

Tares 23 to 28

Coals 22 s. to 23 s. per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 20 s. to 23 s. per Hundred.

Hops 1729 35 s. to 55 s. per Hundred.

Rape Seed 14 l. to 15 l. per Last.

On Wednesday Stocks were

South-Sea 101 1 half. Annuities 106 1 4th. Bank 139 1 half a 3 4ths. India 182 1 half a 3 4ths. Three per Cent. Annuities 94 3 4ths. African 30. Royal Exchange Assurance 87. London Assurance 11 7 8ths a 12. York Buildings 15 1 half. India Bonds 4 l. 11 s. South Sea Bonds 3 l. 18 s.

The General Shipping LIST.

Ships arrived and sailed from Great Britain, from Feb. 24. to March 3.

Falmouth.

Ships Captains From For

20 St. Anthony ——— Oporto Lyn

K. George Woodman Dublin Straights

Viana Merchant North London Malaga

Success Hallum ditto Oporto

Anne Camplin ditto Virginia

sailed 22

Expedition Packet boat ——— ——— Lisbon

Eagle Packet boat ——— ——— Corunna

arrived 24

Theophilus Long ditto Straights

Union Burrish ditto Cadiz

sailed 21 Plymouth.

Haswel Brooks ——— Virginia

Francis Boswel ——— ditto

Johana Crosby ——— Maryland

Alexander Curling ——— Carolina

Mary Kerfoot ——— Lisbon

Heningham Castle Jones ——— Antegoa

failed 22 Dartmouth.

Samuel Harper ——— Cadiz

Three Brothers Ducket ——— Lisbon

23 Dolphin Thurman ——— France

Prosperous Perry ——— Newfoundla.

Dolphin Skinner ——— ditto

Elizabeth Cooper ——— ditto

Resolution Heard ——— ditto

Two Brothers Thomas ——— ditto

arrived 24

George Gregg Wales London

25 Two Sarahs Lydstone London

26 John and Anne Mooreson Sunderland

Delight Allenson London

Amy Kerby ditto

Susanna Andrews ditto

St. Anthony Welch Oporto Lyn

Anne and Sarah Bryan Carmarthen

Anne and Mary Hollaway Bristol

Weymouth.

22 This day sailed all the ships mentioned in my former.

sailed 26

Brimpton Speer ——— N. England

arrived 28

Exchange Elery Newcastle Oporto

arrived 24 Southampton.

Anne Gaver Oporto

sailed 28

Elizabeth Martin ——— Lisbon

arrived

Brotherhood Denroch Dublin

sailed 19 Portsmouth.

Richmond West ——— Barcelona

arrived 22

Dolphin Dean Malaga

sailed 23

Eleanor Jurd ——— Plymouth

Craggs Grantham ——— East-Indies

Bridgwater Williamson ——— ditto

Dawson Steward ——— ditto

arrived 24 Dover.

Betty Smith Sunderland

Anna Maria Ouchterlogn Leghorn Hamburgh

William and Mary Porter Solo Amsterdam

Rose in June Dixon Topsham Sunderland

siled 26

Success Spourn Lyn Oporto

Endeavour Maurice Waterford Amsterdam

Roman Emperor Hawkins Gibraltar

Elizabeth & Anne French ditto

Good-Intent Saltstone Bristol

Leonard Thompson S. Valery

Martha Veale ditto

Endeavour Young ditto

sailed 24

Elizbeth Wenlock ——— Lisbon

arrived 28

Pr. William Williams Dunkirk Lisbon

Endeavour Norton Weymouth

sailed 24 Downs bound home.

London Snow Brown S. Kitts

Mary Glass Lisbon

Eagle Everet Oporto

Golden Fleece Compton Topsham

Exchange Harris Malaga

Gravesend bound home.

24 Eagle Stanton Seville

25 Arabella Hicks Carolina

26 London Snow Brown S. Kitts

Mary Glass Lisbon

Exchange Harris Malaga

Blanchard's Ad. Blanchard S. Ubes

Eagle Everet Oporto

Friend's Adven. Eason Amsterdam

Neptune Welden Viana

Mary Grain Dunkirk

Royal Vineyard Brown Calais

Joseph & Isaac Staples Caroline

Three Sisters Johnson Amsterdam

Francis Abbot Malaga

28 Expedition Pidgeon Rotterdam

Granada Gray Dieppe

Ann Cartwright Roan

23 Abel Foster ——— Barbadoes

Sea Horse Hunt ——— ditto

Ann Blewit ——— Naples

25 Neptune Wilson ——— Leghorn

George & Eliz. Burton ——— Virginia

Hap. Rebecca Maugier ——— Portsmouth

Morren Harrison ——— Leverpool

Edw. & Mary Mitchel Lisbon Hamburgh

26 Rose Lawson ——— Cad. & S. Bar.

28 Richard Ramsdal Yarmouth Westward.

Phenix King ——— Lisbon

Constant Ann Blackstone ——— S. Ubes

John & Thom. Hill ——— Maryland

Tho. and Will. Stephens ——— Exon

Parham Club Davis ——— Antigua

John & Mary Wood ——— S. Kitt

Arrived

Friend's Adven. More Holland Guinea

Gravesend bound out.

Friend's Adven. Moore Holland

Gravesend bount out.

23 George & Eliz. Burton ——— Virginia

Friendship Combes ——— Figura

24 Success Hammond ——— Oporto

Catharine Winn ——— Dieppe

Mountser. Mer. Jones ——— S. Kitts

25 Robert Lawson ——— S. Sebastian

Neptune Wilson ——— Steights

Sarah & Isaac Osbourne ——— ditto

Dolphin Brimct ——— Holland

Cornelius Annibal ——— ditto

Constant Anne Blackstone ——— Portugal

Phenix King ——— ditto

John & Thom. Keate ——— Maryland

27 John and Mary Wood ——— S. Kitts

Phenix Matthews ——— Cadiz

Supply Randal ——— Maryland

Content Hume ——— ditto

Shurbone Cowell ——— Jamaica

Wind at Deal Feb. 24, N.W. 25, Calm. 26, E.N.E. 27, S.W. 28, E. by N. March 1, S.E. 2, E.S.E.

* * *

ADVERTISEMENTS.

This Day is Publish'd,

THE Foreigner's Guide: Or, a necessary and instructive Companion, both for the Foreigner and Native, in their Tour through the Cities of London and Westminster. Giving,

1st. A general Description of these two Cities, with an Account of their respective Government.

2dly. A Description of the Royal Palaces, Noblemans Houses, publick Buildings, Churches, streets, Squares, and the most remarkable Places in and near the famous Metropolis: With an Account of the Inns of Court, Royal Society, publick Walks, Diversions, remarkable Days, Coast Days, Post Days. And,

3dly. A Description of the several villages in the Neighbourhood, as Chelsea, Kensington, Richmond, Greenwich, Woolwich, Hamstead; and alto others more remote, viz. Hampton-Court, Windsor, Oxford, Cambridge. Blenheim, New-Market Horse Races, Epsom, Tunbridge Bath. And,

4thly. An Account of the Rates of Coaches, Watermen; and also the Rates of Post Horses; with the Roads to Dover and Harwich.

Very useful and entertaining both to Foreigner and Native, and done into English and French.

Where may be had,

LOVE LETTERS on all Occasions, lately passed between Persons on Distinction. Collected by Mrs. Eliz. Haywood.

Pleasure with Sorrow, Peace with War allay'd,

Liberty fetter'd, Hope by Fear dismay'd;

Imbitter'd Honey, Earnest mix'd with Play,

Are, Love! the Emblems of thy sov'reign Sway.

Printed for, and sold by Francis Cogan, at the Middle Temple Gate in Fleet street.

This Day are Publish'd,

Printed together in 8vo exactly from the Dublin Copies. Price 6 d.

A LIBEL on Dr. DELANY and a certain great Lord, by Dr. Sw———, occasioned by a certain Epistle to ———. 2. An Epistle to his Excellency the Lord Carteret, by Dr. D———y. 3. An Epistle on an Epistle, or a Christmas Box for Dr. De———y. 4. Dr. Swift's Proposal for preventing the Children of poor People from being a Burden to their Parents or Country, and for making them beneficial to to their Country.

N.B. There is a spurious Edition of this Collection, Printed for A. Moore, first published under the Title of A Satire, &c. and since twice altered, in Imitation of the above, and tho' pretended to be a second Edition, contains the Errors of the first, and is still incorrect. The Key of this Libel will be added to the next Piece of this Author which shall come over, and will be published by Capt. Gulliver.

Printed for Captain Gulliver near the Temple, and sold at the Pamphlet Shops.

Where may be had, the third Edition, of

Cadenus and Vanessa, or the Judgment of Venus. A Poem. By Dr. Swift. Price 4 d.

For the Benefit of those Persons who are afflicted with the DROPSY,

Mrs. Eliz. Knell, who lives next Door to the Baker and Basket in Middle-street, Cloth-fair, near West-smithfield,

STILL continues to perform great Cures in the Dropsy, of both Sexes and all Ages.

Mr. Lecount in Dr. Frier's Court in Little Britain, has lately received a Cure by the said Miss. Knell's excellent Remedy.

N.B. An Account may be had of several Cures at the Place aforesaid.

* * *

LONDON: Printed and Sold by J. Roberts in Warwick-Lane, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in; and at the Pamphlet-Shops of London and Westminster; and also at the Pegasus (vulgarly called the Flying-Horse) in Grub-street. (Price Two Pence.)

