

Numb. 25.

The Grub-street Journal.

Thursday, JUNE 25. 1730.
For A his magic pen evokes an O.
Dr. Young's 1 Epist. to Mr. Pope.

The following Letter comes from the same learned Gentleman, who sent that which was printed in our Journal, N. 12. containing that admirable emendation of swelling instead of smelling gourd, in Paradice Lost, B. VII. 321.


To Mr. Bavius, Secretary to the Grubean Society.

SIR,

I HAVE been lately reading the first book of Milton's Paradise lost critically, with a resolution to find as many faults as I could, as well of the Author himself, as of his ignorant or supine Transcribers and Publishers. Those of the former sort I shall mention another time: two or three of the latter I will give you at present.
———Thammuz came next behind,
Whose annual wound in Lebanon allur'd
The Syrian Damsels to lament his fate
In amorous ditties all a Summers day;
While smooth Adonis from his native rock
Ran purple to the sea, suppos'd with blood
Of Thammaz yearly wounded.

Suppos'd in ver. 451. is either non-sense, or at best extremely flat: instead of which, I suppose the Author wrote suffus'd with blood, from suffundi sanguine or rubore, for insisi or colorari.
———The rest entire
Shone with a glossy scurf, undoubted sign,
That in his womb was hard metallic Ore,
The work of Sulphur.

Read was hid, as some editions have it.
———A second multitude
With wondrous art found out the massy Ore.

It is evident that the Author wrote founded. The Ore was found out before, ver. 688.
———Soon had his crew
Open'd into the hill a spacious wound,
And dig'd out ribs of gold.

I intend to read the second Book, when I have leisure; and if I meet with any thing, which I think new and true, I shall send it you. It is my real opinion, Mr. Bavius, that we shall never see the moles and warts in learned Authors removed, unless we read more B———ano; and suspect, that no page is free from the mistakes of ignorant Transcribers, Typographers, and Editors, who are frequently Corruptors, rather than Correctors of new Editions

I am Yours,
Philarchæus.

May 2. 1730.


Mr. Mævius strongly confirmed this last emendation by observing, that the Author had plainly distinguished the different parts which the fallen Angels bore in this wonderful work. In the first place, some dug the mine or Ore.
———Soon had his crew
Open'd into the hill a spacious wound,
And dig'd out ribs of gold.

Next, after a digression of 9 lines and a half, succeeds the founding or melting it by others.
Nigh on the Plain in many cells prepar'd,
That underneath had veins of liquid fire
Sluc'd from the Lake, a second multitude
With wondrous art founded the massy Ore,
Severing each kind, and scum'd the bullion dross.

Then immediately follows the casting it in a mould, just prepared, which compleated the whole work.
A third as soon had form'd within the ground
A various mould and from the boiling cells
By strange conveyance fill'd each hollow nook;
As in an Organ, &c.

Where, within the compass of 20 verses, we plainly see the three different parts of this prodigious work, perform'd by three different companies of Angels.


The following emendation came inclosed in a Letter, with assurance that it was taken from the mouth of a very Great man; upon which account, the Society ordered it to be printed; at the same time, advising all Little men to forbear such audacious Hypercriticism. To form a new reading upon the alteration of stops or letters, where there is some small similitude betwixt the changed and the substituted letters or words, is a very commendable kind of Criticism. To this as we owe the restitution of many corrupt places in ancient Authors to their original beauty; so the use of it, even with respect to the Moderns, evidently appears from the instances given by Philarchæus, in this and his former letter: and we hope he will, according to his promise, go through the whole Poem of Paradise lost. But to alter whole words, solely by conjecture, without the least foundation in the text, we cannot think allowable, and to substitute either charc or chalk, instead of cheese. And yet you will find the Critic has proceeded even farther, in the alteration which follows.
Book VI. Line 509.

———Up they turn'd
Wide the Celestial soile, and saw beneath
Th' originals of Nature in their crude
Conception; sulphurous and nitrous Foam
They found, they mingled, and with subtil art
Concocted, and adusted they reduc'd
To blackest grain, and into store convey'd.

Very pretty, truly! as if the Devil, who deals so much in Charcoal, should not know, that there's no making Gun powder without it.―Why, the meerest Novice in Hell could have told him so.―Nay, 'tis plain, it was in the original Recipe.
———They reduc'd
To blackest grain———

Read it thus, and say I bid you.
  Sulphurous and nitrous Foam
They found, they mingled, and with subtil art
Concocted; then with Charcoal they reduc'd
To blackest grain, &c.

I know one of the Clarissimi that reads,
  in their crude
Conception; Sulphur, Charc, and nitrous Foam
They found, &c.

But how they should find Charc among th' originals of Nature I don't apprehend, unes they carried it in their pockets.

I cannot pass by this useful Invention to Mankind (for such we must allow it to be, if we give the Devil his due) without testifying my gratitude to the ingenious Mr. Wood, for his noble scheme of founding iron with pig-coal; which, as affairs now stand, I take to be of the utmost consequence to the Nation: for if we consume all our wood in founding great guns, 'tis certain we shall have no charcoal left for powder to employ them.


The following Copy came from the Author of the Satire intituled, Blasphemy as old as the Creation.

To Mrs. M. H. on her working a coat in silks.
WHEN Mira's hands her needle thread,
 What gaudy scenes our eyes surprize;
To view a grove, or flow'ry bed,
 Beneath her snowy fingers rise!

In every leaf such beauties dwell,
 So fair they spread. so full they bloom;
Her skillful fingers far excell
 The painter's quill, or artist's loom.

On the rich bed fresh roses blown,
 The jesmin and the myrtle meet;
And, as they mingle, seem to own
 More fair her cheek, her breath more sweet.

That lilly from her hand she look;
 Which with the snow in whiteness vies;
That bright carnation from her took,
 That fining amarant from her eyes.

Those opening buds but hath reveal'd,
 That promise soon a fairer hue,
Shew like her breasts with lawn conceal'd,
 Which boast their sweets and softness too.

What tho' the absent sun retir'd
 The naked field no longer warms?
Each blossom, by her art inspir'd,
 Opens as wide, as gayly charms.

Thy flow'rs for ever hold their prime,
 Nor frosts, nor chilling winters fear;
Since near thy hoop, that happy clime,
 'Tis spring, or summer all the year.

Pity, lov'd Maid, that envious years
 Thy youth shou'd hurt, thy sweets consume;
When wrought by thee, each bud appears
 Unchang'd, and always in its bloom.

Each youth with thee must surely grieve
 The partial rigour of the sky;
That Mira's works must bloom and live,
 When Mira's beauties fade and die.

A few fair months our gardens charm,
 Now flourish, and anon decay:
Each season of thy coat is warm,
 And every verdant month is May!

Let autumns then the lilly hide,
 Our roses blast, our myrtles chill:
When seated close to Mira's side,
 'Tis June, or fragrant April still.

Victorious nymph! whose hand has done
 Beyond weak nature's fainter power:
Waking each plant without the sun;
 Swelling each bud without the shower.

When every field beside is seen
 Robb'd of its pride; we here beheld
Gay Spreading items of lively green,
 And yellow fruit of ripening gold.


A King at arms disarm'd at law. A Ballad by an unknown hand.
YE fair injur'd Nymphs, and ye Beaux who deceive 'em,
Who with passion engage, and without reason leave 'em;
Draw near, and attend, how the Hero I sing
Was foil'd by a Girl, tho' at Arms he was king.

II.

 Crafts, Mottos, Supporters, and Bearings knew he,
And deeply was studied in old Pedigree;
He wou'd sit a whole evening, and not without rapture,
Tell who begot whom, to the end of the chapter.

III.

 In forming his tables, nought griev'd him, but solely,
That the Man died Caleb, or else sine Prole:
At last, having trac'd others familes down,
He began to have thoughts of increasing his own.

IV.

 A Damsel he chose, not too slow of belief,
And fain wou'd be deem'd her admirer in chief:
He blazon'd his suit, and the sum of his tale
Was His field and her field, join'd party per pale.

V.

 In different stile, to tye faster the noose.
Me next would attack her in soft Billet doux:
His Argent and Sable were laid aside quite;
Plain English he wrote, and in plain black and white.

VI.

Against such Atchievements, what Beauty could fence?
Or who would have thought it was all but pretence?
His pain to relieve, and fulfill his desire,
The Lady agreed to join hands with the 'Squire.

VII.

The 'Squire, in a fret, that the jet went so far,
Consider'd, with speed, how to put in a Barr:
His words bound not him, since hers did not confine her;
And that is plain Law, because Miss is a Minor.

VIII.

 Miss briskly reply'd, that the Law was too hard,
If she who is Minor, may not be a W———.
In Law then confiding she took it upon her,
By Justice to mend these foul breaches of honour.

IX.

 She handled him so, that few wou'd (I warrant,)
Have been in his Coat, on so sleeveless an Errand.
She made him give bond for stamp'd Argent and Or;
And sabled his Shield, with Gules blazon'd before.

X
 Ye Heralds, produce, from the time of the Normans,
In all your records, such a base non-performance:
Or if without instance the Case is we touch on;
Let this be set down as a Blot in his Scutcheon.


LONDON.

Thursday, June 18.

Yesterday a Solicitor was committed by the Court of Common-pleas, for serving copies of a Writ; when he had not any original. Cour.———This is not accounted male practice among our Fraternity; it being very common for our Sollicitors to serve their Patrons, with copies of Translations, of which they cannot produce any original.

The same day an Attorney of the King's-Bench, who lives in Gloucestershire, was struck off the list for fraudulent practices; and an attachment was issued to take him into custody. Ibid.

Mr. Franklin, the Book-seller, was discharged from his recognizances. Ibid.

Mr Fitzgerald, a Sollicitor, committed last monday, [for perjury] was yesterday bailed. D. Journal.

Tuesday a general Court of the Welch copper Company was held in Philpot lane, where it was resolved by a great majority, to impower their Court of Assistants to enter into all amicable measures to accommodate the differences with Mr. Moore, which was originally spirited up again him by the enemies of that Company. And as it is not doubted but a resoution of this kind will engage the zeal of the Assistants to speed an accommodation; so the consequence of it will assuredly answer the expectation of all well-wishers to that Company's prosperity. Post Boy.———Upon the reading of this paragraph @ great admirer of the Woolstonian Allegories, told the Society, that this was a prophetical direction to them, what to do in relation to an affair, which had lately made some noise. He therefore proposed, that the Society would impower a Committee to enter into all amicable measures to accommodate the difference with Mr. M———re, alias Smith , which was likewise originally spirited up against him by the enemies of this Sockety: and concluded, that the consequence would assuredly answer the expectation of all well-wishers to the prosperity of Grub-street. But it passed in the negative.

Friday died Mr. John Noble, a noted Anabaptist Minister; and yesterday John Lloyd, Esq; an eminent New-England Merchant. Ibid.

Yesterday morning a young Woman, well dressed, about 19, undressed herself at the New Pond near Islington, tied her cloaths in a new riding-hood, leaped in, and drowned her self, tho' taken out very soon. Ibid.———One would imagine, that this young unfortunate woman designed only to cool her self this hot weather; she being the first, that ever I heard of, who undressed, in order to drown her self.

We hear that several persons, proprietors of old East-India stock, at the time of the surrender of that Company's charter, agreed to accept, and have received 1 l. 5 s. per cent. in satisfaction of their interest, from the surviving Trustees; with whom a suit has been depending many years in Chancery: and the payment is continued, at the present East-India house in Leadenhall-street, where the accounts lie open for the perusal of any one concerned. Daily Post.

Mr. Steph. Fecham, of Bristol, having been found guilty, on the Coroner's inquest, of killing 8 persons with a gun, was yesterday arraigned at the King's-Bench bar, and pleaded his Majesty's pardon. These persons were killed at an insurrection of the Weavers at Bristol last September, with design to make their Masters give a shilling per piece more for long ells. Daily Journal.

Dr. Cressel, who has a living in Shropshire, is made Dean of Clogher in Ireland, in the room of Dean Berkley, who is gone to reside at Bermudas. Even. Post.

West, the Waterman, mentioned in our last, as sent to Newgate, for having carnal knowledge of Eliz. Lardan, London, or Loudon, in a forcible manner; is by the Post Boy 17, and the Even. Post 13, only said to have got in at her window, and to have done it in her sleep. On which a Surgeon observed, that the forcible manner was to be understood solely of the manner of his getting in at her window.

The Crew of the Rye Galley, Capt. Edwards, found about 150 half anchors of brandy floating off Rye. St. James's Even.

Seals, Causes, Exceptions, and Demurrers after Trin. Term, 1730. Tues. June 23. I gen. seal. Wedn. 24, 25, 26, 27, 29. Causes. Tues. 30. II gen. seal. Wedn. July 1. Causes. Thurs. 2. Frid. 3. Rehearings. Sat. 4. Mond.6. Exceptions. Tues. 7. III gen. seal. Wedn. 8, 9, 10. Exceptions. Sat. II. Mond. 13. Pleas and Demurrers. Tues. 14. IV gen. seal. Wedn. 15. Thurs. 16. Petitions and causes by consent. Ibid.

We hear, that Mr. John Martyn, a Gentleman very famous for his skill in Botany, and other parts of Nat. History, is proposed to succeed Dr. Rutty, as Secretary to the R. Society. Lond. Evening.

George Warren, an eminent Merchant, residing at Marseilles, died the 10th instant. Ibid.


Friday, June 19.

Yesterday between 12 and 1, 2 houses fell down in Henrietta-street, Covent-garden, and a 3d was much damaged. The people, allarm'd some minutes before by their cracking, got out. Courant. The same day a house fell down in Prince's-street by Leicester-fields; but no person received any hurt. D Journ.

Yesterday his R. H. the Duke, and the Earls of Chesterfield and Burlington, were installed at Windsor, with the usual grandeur and ceremonies. Courant. The expence is computed at 5000 l. D. Post. 20.

Friday the D. of Norfolk arrived at Paris. Post Boy.

The L. Forbes, lately made Capt. Gen. &c. of the Leeward Islands; some days since reigned chat agreeable command. D. Journ.

Wednesday night one Legard, a soldier, having had some words with his Wife, beat her in a barbarous manner, and told her he should die before morning: and accordingly he was found dead yesterday morning Courant.———Perhaps the Wife, not liking this military way of taking leave, contributed to the fulfilling this prophetick revelation.


Saturday, June 20.

Tuesday was an insurection of the Weavers at Braintree, who went from thence to Mr. Miles at Coggeshal whither they heard Mr. Brown of Braintree had sent some Irish yarn. They attemped to pull down Mr. Miles's house, and insulted the Justices while the Proclamation wes reading: upon which the soldiers fired, killing 4 persons, and wounding 2 or 3. 2 were sent to Chelmsford goal. The mob having made a collection for the burial of 1 of the persons killed, a Weaver of Braintree, brought his corpse in a hearse to Mr. Brown's door on Wednesday even, broke his windows, and committed several outrages, till Capt. Masterton, marching his men, dispersed them, and took 3 into custody. The yarn proved not to be Irish, but bought of Mr. Sol. Isaac of Braintree. Univ. Spectator.

Yesterday a Nurse was taken out of the ruins of the house in Henrietta-street: and, it is said, Mr. Edwin has suffered near 5000 l. damage in his curious collection of Pictures. D. Post.

At the sittings of the Court of Common-pleas, Guild-hall, a cause was try'd between 2 Gent. for fighting; and a verdict of 50 l. with costs, was given against him who struck the first blow. Post Boy.———This is not according to the received maxim, The second blow begins the quarrel.

Yesterday Will. Fortescue, Esq; Sollicitor to the Prince, went to kiss his Majesty's hand, on his being appointed one of the Barons of the Exchequer in Scotland. Ibid.

The E. of Kinnoul, Ambassader to the Grand Seignor, arrived at Constantinople, May 4. N.S. Daily Journ.

Yesterday morn. about 1 died ihe R. H. Tho. L. Trevor, &c. at Peckham in his 77th year. D. Post. About 3. Cour. Between 4 and 5. Post Boy. He went to bed thursday night in perfect health, was seized about 5 in the morn. with a pain in his stomach, supposed to be the cholic, and expired in about an hour. He is succeeded by his eldest son Thomas. D. Journ.

By Mr. Chamber's fine for Sheriff, a foundation is laid for building a mansion-house for my L. Mayor. Craftsman.

We are informed, that some of the Sodomites, who lately made their escape from Holland, are safely arrived here: but, however, they have taken up their quarters in a certain End of this vertuous Town, where they will hardly be able to corrupt their neighbours. Fog's Jour.———I am of opinion, that all Ends are very secure.

Col. Charteris hath commenced a suit against the H. Bailiff of Westminster, on account of the goods and chattels seized by the said Gentleman. E.P. S.J. L.E.


Monday, June 22.

Sat. morn, a man was found drowned in a pond by Sir G. Whitmore's, having his legs ty'd with his garters. C. D.P.

Ben. Darby and Tho. Baker, Esqs; are appointed receivers general for Somersetshire, in the room of Tho. Penn, Esq; deceased. Ibid.

Sir John Jennings, who in his late fall from his horse, broke 2 ribs, bruised one leg, and his collar bone; is in a fair way of recovery. C.

Yesterday Sir Tho. Littleton's eldest son arrived in Town from his travels. C.P.

Sat. Francis Atwood, Esq; was married at Walton to Miss Barb. Strode, Daughter of Will. Strode, Esq; a fortune of 13,000 l. P.

Frid. night James Groves and Will. George were taken by the Centinel in the Privy Gardens, being charged with sodomitical practices; and were committed to the Gatehouse. D. J.


Tuesday, June 23.

On Friday last a boy fell down the hold of the Kinsale man of War at Portsmouth, by which means his belly was so cut, that his guts came out, and he died soon after. Whitehall Even.

Sunday last one Will. Williams, a soldier, was committed to Newgate by Christian Cole, Esq; tor stabbing Tho. Whates in his throat with a sword, so that his life is in danger. Ibid.

Tho. Reeves, Esq; one of his Majesty's Council atblaw, will, 'tis said, be appointed Latin Secretary to his Majesty, in the room of Mr. Justice Lee. Ibid.

Yesterday the five Indian Kings, lately arrived from America, were admitted to a publick audience of his Majesty at Windsor, conducted by Sir Alexander Cummins, who brought them over. His Majesty, by their interpreter, was pleased to ask them many questions: They express'd the highest satisfaction for the kind reception they had met with here, and promised to be ever grateful to his Majesty's subjects in America for it: They were shewn into the gallery over the terras, where one of them desired leave to exercise his bow and arrow on the great Elk in the park, to shew his Majesty a specimen of his dexterity; but he was told that could not be complied with: They had severally the honour to kiss the hands of his Majesty, the Prince of Wales, the Duke &c. London Even.

They were afterwards conducted back to their Inn at Windsor, and ordered to be entertained, during their stay there, at his Majesty's expence. Ibid.

A few days ago a Gent. of the Life-guard's and a Horse-grenadier, on duty together, having some words, fought a duel in Tothill fields; the latter giving the former, it is thought, a mortal wound; for which he is now under confinement. P.

Sund. Pet. Bluck, Gent. was committed to Newgate by Just. Burdus, having come voluntarily before him, and signed a confession, that about Feb.19 gone 5 years, he strangled his late Daughter Anne, a child aged 5 years; and that he hath ever since been troubled in his conscience for the said murder. D P.

The same night a Gent. was robbed over against S. Clement's Church in the Strand, by 2 Street-robbers, of his watch, sword, and 9 guineas; one presenting a pistol, while the other robb'd him. D P. Yestercay morn. about 2, Edm. Malone of the Temple. C. 23 guineas. P.

Sund. ——— Paunceford, Esq; kissed his Majesty's hand, on being appointed one of his Council, and Sollicitor to the Prince. D. J.

Yesterday at the King's-Bench, Guildhall, was tried an Action brought by an Independent Teacher against Eliz. Chamberlain, for saying S. S. is a rogue and a drunkard, and I will prove him so. S. S. is a vile fellow, used to sing bawdy songs in an ale-house; is a libertine, and will get drink in an ale-house. Whereby Mr. Steedwell, who had proposed to be of his congregation, and to be a contributor, had altered his resolution; and many had withdrawn their subscriptions, The Defendant endeavoured to justify the words, but could not. Whereupon the Jury gave the Plaintiff 10 l. damages. D. J.


Wednesday, June 24.

His Majesty has been pleased to grant to the L. Lynne, a Salary of 1500 l. per Ann, for executing the office of Master or the Treasurer of his Majesty's Jewels, the former salary of that office being but 800 l. per an. D. P.

Last week the Committee for the City lands lett out a parcel of ground adjoining to Moorfields to Mr. Graves, at 100 l. per an. and 1600 l. fine, on a lease of 60 years, to build on.

Edinburgh, June 11. Tuesd. died Dr. Will. Rutherford of Barnhills, Esq; an eminent Physician: and yesterday David Ross, Esq; late one of the Commissioners of excise. C. 18, &c.

Dublin, June 6. Rich. Dickson the Printer was lately taken into custody for publishing the Case of Dan. Kimberly; but on great application, and owning his fault, was soon discharged. D. J. 18.

June 13. Yesterday at the King's-Bench came on the Trial of the Rev. Mr. Tho. Sawbridge, for ravishing Sus. Runcard of this City: but no evidence appearing, he was acquitted. 'Tis reported the Dean intends to indict her for Perjury, he being in the County of Wexford, when she swore the rape was committed in Dublin. C. 23, &c.

Boston in New-England, May 6. Above 100 persons were under inoculation in March last. The small-pox continues to spread in the natural way; People being very much against inoculation, several having died under it, and some miserably, their bodies being deplorably mortified; and many who have survived are full of humours almost incurable. D. J. 22.


From the Pegasus in Grub Street.

To Capt. Gulliver Bookseller to the Society of Grub-street.

SIR,

'TIs true, as is said in several News-Papers, that we have had the greatest struggle here which has been known for many years; because we have had no opposition for the last 25 years: but yet the numbers poll'd were not so many as at our 2 last Elections, which stood thus,
The Poll 1702 	The Poll 1705 	The Poll 1730
Sir Just. Isham 	230 		2483 	S. J. Isham 	2171
Tho. Cartwright, Esq; 	2327 		2478 	W. Hanb. Esq. 	2000
Lord Spencer 	1210 	L. Mordaunt 	2303
Sir Andrew St. John 	2015 		2176

According to some printed papers spred about here, Mr. Hanbury's side seem to complain of foul play: and the charge is retorted by the other Party, who are at a loss to think, how they should be so hard set the second day's poll, without some artful management; insomuch, that the Gentlemen for Sir Just. thought it necessary to ride all night, to get in all the votes they could in so short a time muster for the next day; and by this means, carried it by so great a majority of fair votes, that they say the other side durst not demand a scrutiny. On the contrary, the Northampton Mercury says, 'A Scrutiny was desired, but not granted, and Sir Just. Isham, was declared elected'. The said Paper intimates, that Mr. Hanbury intends to lodge a petition, and that he expects to succeed therein. For adds he, 'The next day, being the Anniversary of his Majesty's accession to the throne, Mr. Hanbury continued in Northampton, with many of his friends, and caused all the bells in town to be rung, and at nigh gave a large bonfire and several hogsheads of ale to the populace (the Freeholders 'tis to be supposed were gone home) in memory of the day; when their Majesties, with all the Royal Family, and many other loyal healths were drank, with loud huzzas, trumpet sounding, &c. which (continues he) did not a little disturb many persons, who opposed Mr. Hanbury's election, and who distinguished themselves in a very particular manner the day before.' I can't tell you, for what reason this author shoud suppose any person to be disturb'd at this day's rejoycings: but there is a very obvious one, why he and his Friends were disturb'd at the proceeding day's joyful acclamations; for which they would have been glad to have had the occasion. Indeed, some of Sir Justinian's very wise opposers advised him not to be chair'd after his being declar'd, because, forsooth, it was the 10th of June. Whether this subtle advice was offered in friendship, or that they could not bear to see so worthy a Gentleman triumph over them, I'll leave you to judge. However, it was not in his power to prevent it; for the Freeholders seized him, and would do themselves the pleasure to shew him about the Town before their departure, by carrying him in the Chair, as usual with the loudest acclamations; notwithstanding the vile constructions that might be put on their behaviour therein, by those who were weak enough to make so empty an objection, the design of which was easily seen through. But to return to what we said of foul play: All that the Losers had to complain of, was, that several of the Clergy, on whom they thought they might depend, went entirely against them; and that a certain Lord's Tenants being drawn together to be led aside by false pretences, the Steward came to undeceive them, and leave them to their liberty: and these were truly mortifying accidents. Upon the whole, the edge of opposition being thus again happily blunted; 'tis hoped in general, that the Peace of the County will be preserv'd undisturb'd, as long as there is one of the worthy Families (who have jointly and honourably represented it for above these thirty years past) left to sustain the character of their Predecessors: to the end that we being in the heart of the Kingdom, may continue to shew an exemplary constancy and firmness to the Electors and Elected round about us. The Publication of this will oblige the majority of the Freeholders, and particularly,

Dear Captain,
Your most humble servant T. H.

Northampton, June 17. 1730.


When the Society ordered the preceding Letter to be printed, at the same time, it was declar'd that they did not design to espouse the Cause of one Party in opposition to the other, but the cause of truth: and therefore if any of Mr. Hanbury's Friends would send an answer, written in as inoffensive a manner, they should be ready to publish it.

Then three Copies of verses were read, and disapprov'd. The first was a Riddle upon a Pen, designed to raise lewd ideas in the mind of the Reader. The second was called an Ænigma, written in the same low stile with the Riddles which used to appear in OEDIPUS. And the third was an Epigram, Riddle, or Ænigma, occasioned by an Epigram on Mr. J. M. S. in our last Journal. By the Poetry and by the hand it was thought to come from a Theobaldian in his heart and head; tho' like a false Brother he endeavours to ridicule one Mr. S———. But it being done, not only without reason, but even without rhyme (the last lines ending with believing and saving) the Society opposed the printing it; being resolved to observe as strictly as possible the Rule laid down by the first Great man of the name of More, That all Compositions offered to the Public, should be either Rhyme or Reason. The rest which follows was ordered to be printed.


SIR,

I Have seen an Epitaph which, I was told, is intended to be put upon Sir Isaac Newton's monument: it did not discourage me from offering this to the Gentlemen concerned in that affair.
 Marmor hoc æternum stet,
Sacrum honori magnae Britanniae,
Quae Isaacum Newtonum hic sepultum
 Orbi dedisse gloriatur.

Whereas in the Daily Post and Journal of the 6th instant, the following Article was inserted, 'Last Saturday Mr. Gilliver was served with an Information from the King's-bench, on account of the Grubstreet Journal of Thursday last.' This was a mistake, he being served only with a Rule, requiring him to shew cause why an Information should not be granted; which he will do next Term.

On Mr. M―res going to Law with Mr. Gilliver.

Inscrib'd to Attorney Tibbald.
Once in his Life M―re judges right:
 His Sword and Pen not worth a Straw,
An Author that cou'd never write,
A Gentleman that dares not fight,
 Has but one way to teaze―by Law.

This suit dear Tibbald kindly hatch;
 Thus thou may'st help the sneaking Elf:
And sure a Printer is his Match,
 Who's but a Publisher himself.

WHereas J. M. S. a tall, modest, young Man, with yellowish Teeth, a sallow Complexion, and a slattish Eye; shaped somewhat like an Italian in the Shoulders, Hip, and back Parts; in mourning Apparel, wearing a brown tye Wig; hath absented himself from his Lodging in Orange Street, and is not to be found at the Places he usually frequented, supposed to be disordered in his Head, and to have gone away suddenly, in apprehension of falling under the Hands of the Physician. Whoever will give Notice of the said J. M. S. to Dr. Arbuthnot in Cork-Street, Burlington Gardens, shall receive two guineas Reward, to the end that the said unfortunate young Man may be brought to his right understanding.


FOREIGN NEWS.

Thursday, June 18.

Yesterday arrived the Mail from France.

Petersbourg, May 25. Gen. Maraonot, who is at present at Derbent, is appointed to go Ambassador to Ispahan, to renew the former Treaties, between the late Czar Peter I. and P. Thamas, now K. of Persia. D. Post.

Paris. June 24. Don Lucas Spinola, Capt. Gen. of the Spanish army, set out the 16th to return to Spain. The 22d the Card. de Fleury came to preside in the Gen assembly of the Clergy. The Actions are again got up to about 1400 livres. C.P. D.P. D.J.

Rome, June 3. The Cardinals now most talked of for the Papacy are Colonna and Davia. D.J.

The Cardinals Heads of Orders have lately caused Monk to be seized, who, preaching in one of the principal Churches, asserted, that in the night between the 14th and 15th the City of Rome would be swallowed up by an earthquake; and that this event was foretold to one of his She-penitents in a dream. S. J. E.

Barcelona, June 11. Positive Orders are now come from Court to forward the expedition for Italy in all haste; and 42,000 men are to be embarked in little more than 6 weeks. Upwards of 30,000 men are in the neighbourhood; 21,000 are to be shipp'd off here, 11,000 at Malaga. and 10.000 at Alicant. E.P. S.J. E.

Legnora, June 3. Letters from Corsica import, that Signor Venerolo, Commissary Gen. of the Republic, has desired leave to return, and give an account of the state of that Island, where the Rebels have had the impudence to declare, that if in 6 weeks they have not satisfaction, they will destroy the Country with fire and sword. Ibid.

Vienna, June 10. A fire last sunday destroyed the whole Town of Ezerstorff, 4 leagues from hence, consisting of about 600 houses, but the Church was saved. Ibid.

Amsterdam, June 23. Some advices from Constantinople import, that Sultan Efreff was arrived there, having, with much difficulty, escaped falling into the hands of his enemy. Ibid.


Friday, June 19.

Swerin, June 18. N. S. D. Charles Leopold of Mecklembourg, our Sovereign, has, since his arrival, caused a detachment of his Troops to dislodge an Ensign, and 16 private Centinels, from their Post near this fortress. P.

Hambourg, June 16. Letters from Hanover import that Gen. Bulau, and the other Gen. Officers had received orders to repair thither forthwith; and that the Troops were commanded to be ready to march on the first warning. D. P.


Saturday, June 10.

Yesterday arrived the Mail from Holland.

Hambourg, June 20. It is written from Moscow that May 28. being Whitsunday, the Empress of Russia, with her own hands put upon Count Wratislau, Ambassador of the Emperor, the Ensigns of the Order of St. Andrew. C. D.P.

Granada, June 2. Fresh orders relating to the imbarkation of the Troops have been sent into all the parts of this kingdom. All the transports are got ready, and have been paid 2 months pay advance: so that nothing now is wanting but the Marq. de Spinola's return to put that enterprize in execution. C. D P. D.J.

Cadiz, June 6. The Galleons will let sail the 10th for Carthagena and Porto Beilo. This fleet is composed of 5 Galleons and 6 men of war. D. P.

Hague, June 27. N. S. The prosecution of the Sodomites here is carried on with a rigour in some sort answerable to the heinousness of their crime; the guilty being made most terrible examples, without respect of persons. Beside the 7 formerly mentioned, 2 have been burnt, and 2 publicly drowned on a scaffold at Amsterdam. All the towns seem to be infected with this unnatural sin. The prisons are full at Leyden, Delft, Rotterdam, here, and at Amsterdam. In short, all ranks are infected to that degree, that the magistrates are almost at a loss, how to extinguish this infernal heat. P.


Monday, June 22.

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from France.

Paris, June 28, N. S. Our soldiers had rather be doing mischief, than lie still as they have long done. 20 Grenadiers of the Regiment de la Marine, have engaged 20 of the Regiment Royal Allemand: 15 were killed, and several wounded. On the 21st M. Buache, the King's Geographer, son-in-law to M. de Lisle, was admitted a Member of the Royal Academy of Sciences. C &c.

Rome, June 8. The affairs of the Conclave are not far advanced. Ibid.


Tuesday, June 23.

Versailles, June 22. This day the Hansing horses of one of the Aldermen of London arrived here, and tomorrow he is expected himself to run down a flag with his Majesty; who has ordered P. Charles of Lorrain to entertain him. A poor woman in the parish of S. Sulpice, as they were carrying her out of the door to her interment, was pleased not to go so quietly as was expected: upon which, the Coffin being opened, she was found alive, having been only in a lethargy. P.

Milan, June 10. The K of Spain had demanded of the Republic of Genoa the Port of Spezza. D. P.


Wednesday, June 24.

Yesterday arrived the Mail from Holland

Rome, June 10. On the 4th a man of a venerable presence and aspect, hoving a long grey beard, cloath'd in a red gown, with a cowl like that worn by Cardinals, was carried to the prison of the Inquisition. It is said he was taken at Cracow, and brought hither at the expence of the Inquisition; that he talks all languages, is versed in all sorts of sciences, and that he has foretold several things; he is 135 years old, and calls himself Enoch C.


On Tuesday Stocks were

South-Sea 103 7 8ths, a 4, for the Opening. South Sea Annuity 107 1 8th. Bank 142 1 4th. India 190 7 8ths, 191 1 half, Books shut. 191 1 4th, a 1 half, for the Opening. Three per Cent. Annuity 96 1 4th, for the Opening. Million Bank 107. African 46. York Buildings 18. Royal Assurance (100l. paid in) 94 for the Opening. London ditto (13l. paid in) 12 1 4th. Bank Circulation 7l. 15s. South Sea Bonds 41. 18 s. India ditto 5l. 7 s. English Copper 3l. 15 s. Welch ditto 1l. 12 s.

The Course of the Exchange.

    Amsterdam 34 6 a 7
    Ditto at Sight 34 3
    Rotterdam 34 7
    Antwerp 35
    Hamburgh 33 1
    Paris at Sight 32 1 half
    Bourdeaux at sight 32 1 half
    Cadiz 42 1 half
    Madrid 42 5 8ths
    Bilboa 42 1 8th
    Leghorn 51 3 8ths
    Genoa 54 1 half
    Venice 49
    Lisbon 5s. 6d. 3 8ths a 1 4th
    Porto 5s. 5d. 3 8ths
    Dublin 11


Prices of Goods at Bear Key on Monday.
	per Quarter
Wheat 	23 to 29
Rye 	12 to 13
Barley 	10 to 13
Oats 	8 to 13
Horse Beans 	19 to 24
Hog Peas 	14 to 16
Boiling Peas 	22 to 25
Pale Malt 	13 to 19
Brown Malt 	14 to 18 6
Tares 	17 to 25
Coals 	21s. to 23s. per Chaldron.
Hops 1728 	20s. to 32s. per Hundred.
Hops 1729 	35s. to 60s. per Hundred.
Rape Seed 	13l. to 14l. per Last.


ADVERTISEMENTS.


This Day is published,
Beautifully printed in Quarto,

THE HISTORY and ANTIQUITIES of HARWICH and DOVER COURT, Topographical, Dynastical and Political. First collected by Silar Taylor, alias Domville, Gent., Keeper of the King's Stores there; and now much enlarged in all its Parts: With Notes and Observations relating to Natural History. Illustrated with many Copper Plates, representing the Cliff itself; the Fossils contained therein, and other principal things. By Samuel Dale. Printed for Charles Daws in Pater-Noster-Row, and T. Green over-against the Meuse at Charing-Cross.

N.B. There are some few printed on Royal Paper for the Curious.


Just published,

Printed on a superfine Paper, in two Volumes in Quarto,

SOME Observations made in travelling through France, Italy, &c. in the Years 1720, 1721 and 1722: Containing a large and particular Account of the most remarkable Curiosities in those Countries, as well such as relate to their Manners, Customs, religious Orders, Ceremonies, &c. as likewise of their Architecture, Paintings, Sculpture, and other Antiquities, which are esteemed most worthy of the Observation of an English Traveller. With some short Remarks on the Air, Soil, Productions, Trade, Manufactures at several Places, occasionally interspersed. By Edward Wright, Esq; illustrated with 40 curious Drawings, design'd upon the Spot by the Author, and engrav'd on Copper by the best Hands.

Printed for Messieurs Ward and Wicksteed in the Inner Temple Lane.


Just published,

THE LAW against BANKRUPTS: Or, a Treatise wherein the Statues against Bankrupts are explained by several Cases, REsolutions, Judgments, and Decrees, both at Common-Law, and in Chancery. Together with the Learning of Declarations and Pleadings relating thereunto. To which are likewise added, Forms and Directions for Commissioners, and Precedents fit for the perusal of all Lawyers, Merchants and Tradesmen.

Sic utere tuis, ut alienq non Lædas.

The fifth Edition. To which is now added, An Appenix of all the Statutes relating to Bankrupts, to the Year 1725. By Tho. Goodinge, Serjeant at Law. Printed by E. and R. Nutt, and R. Gosling, (Assigns of Edward Sayer, Esq;) for F. Cogan, at the Middle-Temple Gate Fleet-street.


Just publish'd,

THE Female Parson; or, Beau in the Sudds. An Opera, as it is acted at the New Theatre in the Hay-market. By Mr. Charles Coffey, Author of the Beggar's Wedding.

Printed for Fran. Cogan, at the Middle-Temple-gate in Fleet-street, and Lawton Gillver over against St. Dunstan's Church. Price one Shilling.

Where may be had,

The Amours of Philario and Olinda; or, the Intrigues of Windsor: A genuine History. Price one Shilling. Also

An ESSAY founded on Arguments Natural and Moral, proving the Immortality of the Soul. Translated from the Original Manuscript of the Archbishop of Cambray. Price one Shilling.


Lately published,

The THIRD and FOURTH VOLUMES of

THE MUSICAL MISCELLANY; being a Collection of CHOICE SONGS and LYRICK POEMS: With the BASSES to each Tune, and Transposed for the FLUTE. By the most Eminent Masters.
MUSICK's the Cordial of a troubled Breast,
 The softest Remedy that Grief can find;
The gentle Spell that charms our Cares to Rest,
 And calms the rushing Passions of the Mind.

Printed by and for J. Watts, at the Printing-Office in Wild-court, near Lincold-inn-fields, and sold by the Booksellers both of Town and Coutry. Of whom may be had the FIRST and SECOND VOLUMES.

N.B. The FIFTH and SIXTH VOLUMES, which will finish this COLLECTION, being in the Press, and in great Forwardness, all GENTLEMEN and LADIES, who are willing to contribute any choice SONGS, are desired to send 'em as soon as possible, directed for John Watts at the Printing Pffice in Wild Court, near Lincoln's-Fields, and Care will be taken to have them set to Musick.


This Day is published,

BLASPHEMY as old as the Creation, or the Newgate Divine. A Satire. Address'd to the modern Advocates of Irreligion, Prophaneness and Infidelity. By a Gentleman and a Christian.

    Quod si in hoc erro, quod animos hominum immortales esse credam, libenter erro: Nec mihi hunc errorem, quo delector, dum vivo, extorqueri volo, animas esse immortales,———quicquid dixit, Omnium Animarum Socios W. Tindall. Tully.

Printed for Lawton Gulliver at Homer's Head in Fleet-street.

Where may be had, just published,

A new Edition of the Dunciad, which some additional Notes and Epigrams.

A new Edition of the Art of Politicks, with a curious Frontispiece. Risum tenatis Amici?

Two Epistles to Mr. Pope, concerning the Authors of the Age. By the Author of the Universal Passions.

The Merchant. A Naval Lyrick. By the same Author.

An Epistle to the Earl of Chesterfield on the present Situation of Affairs.


This Day is publish'd.

AN Essay upon Poetry and Painting, with relation to the Sacred and Profane History. With an Appendix concerning Obscenity in Writing and Painting.
Ut Pictura Poesis,
Daibturque Licentia sumpta pudenter.
Dice docendus adhue quid censet amiculus:
Ut si Caecas iter monstreravelli.

By Charles Lamotte, D.D. F.R.S. Member of the Society of Antiquaries, and Chaplain to his Grace the Duke of Montague. Printed for F. Fayram, at the South Entrance the Royal Exchange, and J. Leake, Bookseller at Bath.


Just published,

THE LIFE of the Right Rev. Dr. White Kennett, late Lord Bishop of Peterborough; with several original Letters of the late Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr. Tennison; the late Earl of Sunderland; Bishop Kennett, &c. and some curious original Papers and Records, never before published. And also

The Foreigner's Guide: Or, a necessary and instructive Companion, both for the Foreigner and Native, in their Tour through the Cities of London and Westminster. Giving,

1st. A general Description of these two Cities, with an Account of their respective Government.

2dly. A Description of the Royal Palaces, Noblemens Houses, publick Buildings, Churches, Streets, Squares, and the most remarkable Places in and near the famous Metropolis: With an Account of the Inns of Court, Royal Society, publick Walks, Diversions, remarkable Days, Court Days, Post Days. And,

3dly. A Description of the several villages in the Neighbourhood; as Chelsea, Kensington, Richmond, Greenwich, Woolwich, Hampstead; and also others more remote, viz. Hampton-Court, Windsor, Oxford, Cambridge, Blenheim, New-Market Horse Races, Epson, Tunbridge, Bath. And,

4thly. An Account of the Rates of Coaches, Watermen; and also the Rates of Post Horses; with the Roads to Dover and Harwich.

Very useful and entertaining both to Foreigner and Native, and done into English and French.

Where may be had,

LOVE LETTERS on all Occasions, lately passed between Persons of Distinction. Collected by Mrs. Eliza. Haywood,
Pleasure with Sorrow, Peace with War allay'd,
Liberty fetter'd, Hope by Fear dismay'd;
Imbitter'd Honey, Earnest mix'd with Play,
Are, Love! the Emblems of thy sov'reign Sway.

Printed for, and sold by Francis Cogan, at the Middle Temple Gate in Fleet-street.


Just published,

PROPOSALS for Printing by Subscription, a beautiful and correction Edition of ROBERTI STEPHANI Thesaurus Lingue Latinæ. Compared with the best Editions of the Classics, the References adjusted and supplied by J. MARTYN, F.R.S., and the whole corrected and revised from the Press by R. RUSSEL, M.A.

The great Usefulness of this Work having render'd it scarce (tho' it has passed four Impressions) that the best Edition is now sold for at least sixteen Pounds, it is presumed that the Re-printing of it, with these Improvements, will be very acceptable to all the Learned in Europe.

This Work is to be printed from the last Edition (printed at Lyons, containing 653 Sheets, divided into four Tomes) and will be rendered much more useful, by citing not only the Books but Chapters of the Prose Authors, and even the Lines of the Poets; which being adapted to the improved Editions of the Classics, we doubt not will be as agreeable to the Studious, as laborious to the Editors.

It will be printed in the same Manner, and on as good Paper, as the Specimen annexed to the Proposals.

The Price to Subscribers will be six Guineas a Sett in Sheets; only one to be paid down, two on the Delivery of the first Volume (which will contain about 170 Sheets) and one more for each of the other three Volumes.

Some Copies will be printed on a larger Paper for the Curious, at nine Guineas a Sett in Sheets; two to be paid down, two for the first Volume, two for the second, one for the third, and two for the last.

As soon as 200 are subscribed for, the Work shall be put to Press.

The Names and Titles of the Subscribers will be prefixed to the first Volume.

When the Subscription is closed, the Price will be raised to eight Guineas for the small Paper, and twelve the large.

Receipts for the Subscription-Money are signed by all the Proprietors, which they will pay into the Hands of Francis Child, Esq; Alderman, and return it to the Subscribers by Christmas next, if there is not sufficient Encouragement.

Subscriptions are taken in by the Editors; and J. Ratley, at the Dove in Pater-Noster Row; A. Vandenhoeck, at Virgil's Head, over-against the New Church in the Strand; F. Cogan, at the Middle-Temple-Gate, Fleet-Street; and by the Printers, S. Palmer and J. Huggonson, in Bartholomew-Close.


This Day is Published,
(Price Four Pence.)
A General History of Executions, Numb. IV
(To be continued.)

COntaining an Account of the Lives and Actions of the two following Malefactors executed at Tyburn the first Instant, viz. John Doyle, a successful Highwayman, and John Young, a barbarous robber. Also of six Malefactors try'd and condemn'd at the Lent Assizes, before the late Lord Chief Baron Pengelly, and Mr. Justice Fortescue Allend, and executed at Heavytree Gallows near Exeter, two of them protesting their Innocence to the last.

Printed by R. Newton, at St. John's-Gate, and sold by the Booksellers in Town and Country.

Where may be had, Price 4d each,

Numb. I. containing the Life of Everett, a noted Highwayman, of Goodburn, a Poet, and of two other Malefactors executed at the same Time.

Numb. II. containing an Account of five Malefactors, and a Description of a large Gang of Thieves and Cheats, which infest at Times all parts of the Kingdom; of great Use to Officers of Parishes, and private Persons, for guarding against and detecting the said Rogues.

Numb. III. Containing an ample Relation of the noted Villain James Dalton, and of his Robberies for 20 years. Oh Hugh Houghton the Bristol Mail Robber; and three others.

Note, This Work meeting with Encouragement will be continued every Sessions, and the Numbers regularly published soon after the execution, and will contain an Account of the Criminals executed and transported throughout England, in order to make a compleat Volume at the Year's End, when a general Index will be given for that Purpose.


Books printed and sold by John Brotherton at the Bible in Cornhill.

    Life of Oliver Cromwel, 8vo.
    Collection of Novels, 12mo, 6 Vol.
    D'Ano's Tales of the Fairies, 3 Vol. 12mo.
    Free Thoughts on Religion.
    Pilgrim's Progress in 8vo, with Cuts, 2 Vol.
    Spectators, 8 Vol.
    Prideaux Connection, 4 Vol.
    Musical Misc. 4 Vol. 8vo.
    The Dancing Master, by Mr. John Essex, 4to.
    Boyer's Telemachus, 12mo.
    Gay's Fables, 8vo.
    Gordon's Geog. Grammar.
    Boyer's Dictionary in 4to, or 8vo.
    Blais's Sermons, 5 Vol. 8vo.
    Shakespear's Plays.
    Addison's Works, 4 Vol.
    Lockyer's Trade to India
    Abelard's Letters
    Garth's Ovid, 2 Vol.
    Plutarch's Lives, 8 Vol.
    Don Quixot, 2 Vol.
    Guardians, 2 Vol.
    Ovid's Epistles
    Dryden's Virgil.


LONDON: Printed for Capt. Gulliver and F. Cogan near the Temple, Mr. Jackson in Pall-Mall, and J. Brotherton near the Exchange, and Sold by J. Roberts in Warwick-Lane, where Letters and Advertisements, &c. are taken in. [Price Two Pence.]

