

Numb. 24.

The Grub-street Journal.

Thursday, JUNE 18. 1730.
Thou too, great Woolston, here exalt thy throne;
And prove no miracles are like thy own.
Dunciad, B. III.

Mr. Woolston having thought fit to publish very lately a second Part of his Defence, the Society ordered the following Letter, sent about two months ago, to be now published.


Mr Bavius,

THE great usefulness of such a Paper as yours is generally acknowledged, which may assist us in forming a just judgment of Books. Nothing can depreciate this sort of Criticism, but ill-nature, and personal reflections: neither of which (with great pleasure I can say it) have I yet found in yours. In your last [being No 13] you made some short Remarks upon a late Pamphlet concerning the Materiality and mortality of the soul, which endeavoured to deprive us of the belief of future existence, and of the pleasing hopes of a glorious immortality. You have sufficiently exposed the absurdity of that Author's criticisms on the Scripture, in three or four flagrant instances; by which we may judge of the rest. It was those Remarks, which encouraged me to send you this not doubting but the generous design of it will meet with your approbation, and be seconded by something of the like nature, more worthy and acceptable to the Public.

In that Paper you cursorily touched upon the character of Mr. Woolston; which occasioned the following considerations upon his Case. I had no sooner read the first of his six Discourses, but I plainly perceived, that this undertaking did not proceed from an honest and sincere desire of removing error, and re-establishing truth: for then he would have written with good nature, modesty, and decency. But since his Pieces are full of malicious reflections, arrogant boasts, and scurrilous banters; since he has treated not only his Adversaries, but even his Subject, the most sacred Person, and the most sacred Things, with a most audacious and blasphemous ridicule; it is evident the true motive of his undertaking was only to gratify the irregular passions of his own depraved heart.

Upon this, one would at first sight imagine, as such Pieces justly deserve a legal prosecution, that this was the most proper method to prevent the mischief which would probably arise from suffering them to be spread abroad among the people with impunity. But allowing the right of such prosecutions to be built upon the strongest foundation; yet I think they ought in good policy very seldom to be put in practice. It is natural to pity all persons who suffer the penalities of laws; and especially those who have brought these sufferings upon themselves, by a disinterested design (as they pretend) of undeceiving others, and by obeying the dictates of their conscience, in publishing to the world useful and necessary truths. Such prosecutions seem to carry in them an intimation, which is always propagated as much as possible by the sufferers, that there is something extraordinary in what he has advanced, which cannot be answered by argument, and therefore this coercive method is pursued. And thus a Person is often rendered very considerable in the eyes of the world, who was either altogether obscure, or even contemptible before; and his writings and notions are much farther diffused by those very means which were intended to suppress them.

The first step therefore to be taken, in relation to such Writings, is to publish a proper answer to them: which should not be written by a person who is in a much higher station in the world, or is more famous in the republic of letters, than the Antagonist. For the dignity and reputation of the Person concerned renders the controversy more considerable, and imperceptibly raises an obscure adversary to a kind of equality with his opponent. And as elevation is generally attended with envy, if any hasty thoughts, or unguarded expressions appear in such a Work, under the sanction of a great name, the world is apt to disregard the most laborious and learned performance.

Such an Answer ought likewise to be written in the same manner with the Piece which is to be refuted; and must accordingly be either serious, or ludicrous, or both. Whoever undertakes to mount the stage, and dispute with a Merry Andrew, must put on grave, or comical airs, in conformity to his: for if he be deficient in either, he will be judged by the learned audience to be inferior in the argument. This conduct towards heretical Buffoons, seems to be recommended by the wisest of men, Prov. xxvi. 5. Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own conceit.

Upon these accounts, tho' your Society has sufficiently cleared it self from the scandal brought upon it by one single Member; yet I hope some of your learned body will give the world a new account of the state of this controversy, and supply the defects which may appear in the past management of it. And notwithstanding this miraculous Writer, in the opinion of the Patrons of Reason, has treated the subject with great depth of learning, strength of argument, and poignancy of wit; yet I expect to see much more of all three, displayed in the defence of Revelation, if your Society shall think fit to incourage their Members in such an undertaking: which will be very acceptable to the generality of your Readers, and in particular to, Sir,

Your most humble servant,
Philo-libert.

April 6, 1730.


The following Lines, having been read, were ordered to be printed, as likely to be acceptable to all Readers of taste. They are part of a Poem, yet unprinted, called, An Essay on the Dunciad: Written by a young Gentleman of St. Mary Hall, Oxford.
T' Exalt the Soul, or make the Heart sincere;
To arm our lives with honesty severe;
To shake the wretch beyond the reach of Law;
Deter the young, and touch the bold with awe;
To raise the fall'n, to hear the sufferer's crice,
And sanctify the virtues of the wise;
Old Satire rose from probity of mind,
The noblest Ethicks to reform mankind.
 As Cynthia's orb excells the gems of night:
So Epic Satire shines, distinctly bright.
Here Genius lives, and strength in ev'ry part,
And lights and shades, and fancy fix'd by art.
A second Beauty in its nature lies,
It gives not Things, but Beings to our eyes:
Life, Substance, Spirit animate the whole;
Fiction and Fable are the Sense and Soul.
The common Dulness of mankind, array'd
In pomp, here lives, and breathes, a wond'rous Maid:
The Poet decks her with each unknown Grace,
Clears her dull brain, and brightens her dark face.
See! Father Chaos o'er his First born nods,
And Mother Night, in Majesty of Gods!
See Querno's throne, by hands Pontific rise!
And a Fool's Pandemonium strike our eyes!
Ev'n what on *** the public bounteous pours
Is sublimated here to Golden show'rs.
 A Dunciad or a Lutrin is compleat,
And one in action; ludicrously great.
Each wheel rolls round in due degrees of force;
E'en Episodes are needful, or of course:
Of course, when things are virtually begun
E'er the first ends; the Father and the Son:
Or else so needful, and exactly grac'd,
That nothing is ill suited, or ill-plac'd.
 True Epic's a vast World, and This a small:
One has its proper beauties, and one all.
Like Cynthia, one in thirty days appears,
Like Saturn one, rolls round in thirty years.
There opens a wide Tract, a length of Floods.
A bright of Mountains, and a waste of Woods:
Here but one spot; nor Leaf, nor Green depart
From Rules, e'en Nature seems the Child of Art.
 As Unities in Epic works appear:
So must they shine in full distinction here.
Ev'n the great Iliad moves with slower pow'rs:
That forty days demands, this forty hours.
 Each other Satire humbler arts has known
Content with meaner Beauties, tho' its own:
Enough for that, if rugged in its course
The Verse but rolls with vehemence and force;
Or nicely pointed in th' Horatian way
Wounds keen, like Syrens mischievously gay.
Here, All has Wit, yet must that Wit be strong,
Beyond the Turns of Epigram, or Song.
The Thought must rise exactly from the vice,
Sudden, yet finis'd, clear, and yet concise:
One Harmony must first with last unite;
As all true paintings have their Place and Light:
Transitions must be quick, and yet design'd,
Not made to fill, but just retain the mind:
And Similies, like meteors of the night,
But give one flash of momentary Light.
 As thinking makes the Soul, low things express
In high rais'd terms, define a Dunciad best.
Books and the Man demand as much, or more,
Than he who wander'd to the Latian shore:
For here (eternal Grief to Duns's soul,
And B———'s thin Ghost!) the Part contains the Whole:
Since in Mock-Epic none succeeds, but he
Who tastes the whole of Epic Poesy.
 The Moral must be clear and understood;
But finer still, if negatively good:
Blaspheming Capaneus obliquely shows
T'adore those Gods Æneas fears and knows
A Fool's the Heroe; but the Poet's end
Is, to be candid, modest, and a Friend.
 Let Classic Learning sanctify each part,
Not only how your Reading, but your Art.
The charms of Parody, like those of Wit,
If well contrasted, never fail to hit;
One half in light, and one in darkness drest,
(For contraries oppos'd still shine the best.)
When a cold Page half breaks the Writer's heart,
By this it warms, and brightens into Art.
When Rhetorick glitters with too pompous pride,
By this, like Circe, 'tis un-deify'd.
So Berecynthia, while her offspring vye
In homage to the Mother of the sky,
(Deck'd in rich robes, of trees, and plants, and flow'rs,
And crown'd illustrious with an hundred tow'rs,)
O'er all Parnassus casts her eyes at once,
And sees an hundred Sons———and each a Dunce.
 The Language next: from hence new pieasure springss
For Styles are dignify'd, as well as Things.
Tho' Sense subsists, distinct from phrase or sound,
Yet Gravity conveys a surer wound.
The chymic secret, which your pains wou'd find,
Breaks out, unsought for, in Cervantes' mind;
And Quixot's Wildness, like that King's of old,
Turns all he touches into Pomp and Gold.
Yet in this Pomp discretion must be had;
Tho' grave, not stiff; tho' whimsical, not mad:
In Works like these it Fustian might appear,
Mock-Epics, Blackmore, wou'd not cost thee dear.
We grant, that Butler ravishes the heart,
As Shakespear soar'd beyond the reach of art;
(For nature form'd those Poets without Rules,
To fill the world with imitating Fools.)
What Burlesque could, was by that Genius done;
Yet faults it has, impossible to shun:
Th' unchanging strain for want of grandeur cloys,
And gives too oft the horse-laugh mirth of Boys;
The short-legg'd verse, and double-gingling Sound,
So quick surprize us, that our heads run round;
Yet in this Work peculiar Life presides,
And Wit, for all the world to glean besides.
 Here pause, my Muse, too daring and too young!
Nor rashly aim at Precepts yet unsung.
Can Man the Master of the Dunciad teach?
And these new Bays what Other hopes to reach?
'Twere better judg'd, to study and explain
Each ancient Grace he copies not in vain;
To trace thee, Satire, to thy utmost Spring,
Thy Form, thy Changes, and thy Authors sing.

It is not doubted, but that this Specimen will excite the desire of the Public for the whole Piece; and it is hoped it may be a means to move the learned Author to gratify it.


LONDON.

Thursday, June 11.

Important Articles omitted in our two former, and here abridged.———The Wives of Mr. Stanton, a great Stone-cutter, and of Mr. Ambrose an eminent Brewer, dead. Cour. May 28.———Whittonson, a Porter, having quarrelled with his wife, hanged himself. Even. Post.———A boy 8 years old, washing his feet in a pond, fell in, and was drowned. St. James's Even.———Hen. Martin, Mr. Secres son, and a Girl drowned in the Thames; and a Man in the New River. Cour. 29.———A Country Carter backing his cart, broke a boy's leg in Bloomsbury market: and a Drawer to a Tavern, riding in a waggon, had his leg shattered by another waggon passing by. Post Boy. 30.———A chimney took fire, but was extinguished. Cour, June 1.———A child of 3 years old fell into Fleet-ditch, and was brought out again alive. Post Boy.———A boy lost out of a mackarel boat taken up at Limehouse hole. D. Post———Clerk a Carman, afflicted with the gout, hanged himself. D.Journ, June 3.———The Wife of Mr. Singleton an eminent Broker, dead. Daily Post.———Mr. Blandford, a Printer and Publisher, dead. S. James's Even.———An old Chelsea Pensioner found dead in the Willow Walk; and an Herb-woman's girl drowned her self. Post Boy, 5.

Yesterday morning, and not before, the Duke of Norfolk set out for Dover. Courant.

The same day a reprieve was sent to the Savoy, for Stokes, who was ordered to be shot for desertion: and he is to be sent to the garrison at Gibraltar, for his lifetime. Post Boy.

Tuesday George Burrington, Esq; embarked on board a vessel in the river for his Government of South-Carolina. Daily Post.

We hear that the effigies of the late Will. Congreve, Esq; has been curiously done in wax-work at the expence of 2001. Ibid.———It is pity it was not done before, that the Basso Relievo in Westminster-Abbey, might have been curiously done after it.

Mr. John Walker, near the Hay-market, is appointed, by the D. of Argyle, Tin man to the Office of Ordinance. Ibid.

Tuesday they began at the Victualling-office to victual out the Transports: and they are busy at the War-office preparing necessary measures for the embarkation of the Guards. Even. Post. We hear they are to be imbarked by the 15th of July, if the Emperor does not come in by that time. Lond. Even.

Monday night a fire broke out at a Distillers, the corner of Bandy-leg walk in Southwark, which consumed the house, and did considerable damage to those adjoining, occasioned by the head of a still flying off, and the spirits taking fire. Even. Post.

They write from Dorchester, that the infectious distemper which has been so fatal about that place, is much abated. St. James's Even.

Sunday a Jew born in France was baptized at the French Church in the Savoy. Ibid.

The Rev. Dr. Lambert, Vice Chancellor of Cambridge, at the public Commencement, beginning the 1st monday in July, has appointed the following Gentlemen to keep the several Acts, viz. the Rev. Mr. Williams, Fellow of St. John's, the Dr. of Divinity the Rev. Mr. Whalley, Fellow of Pembroke hall, the Batchelor of Divinity; Mr. Trollop, of the same, the Philosophical; Mr. Halls, of St. John's, the Batchelor of Laws; Mr. Mart. Warren, of Bury, late of Emanuel, the Dr. of Physic, Mr. Taylor, Fellow of St. John's, the Music; and Mr. Inglish of Trinity-Hall, the Dr. of Laws. Lond Ev.

This day being the anniversary of his Majesty's accession, the Lord Mayor, &c. went to St. Paul's, where the Rev. Mr. Freeman preached. St. James's Even.

Mr. Woolston is now closely confined in the King's Bench Prison. D. Post.———Mr. Woolston himself owns this to be literally true.

Monday the Hon. Ezek. Dugdale. Esq; was married to Mrs. Boddington, relict of the late Tho. Boddington, Esq; a fortune of 11,000 l. in money, and 1300 per an. St. James's Even. Tuesday Sam. Child, Esq, to Mrs. Edgar, daughter of the late Millicent Edgar, Esq; London Even. And yesterday Mr. de Costa, an eminent Jew Merchant, to a Niece of Mr. Salvadore, a rich Jew Merchant in Lime-street. D. Post.

Last week died at his Lodgings near St. Clement's, Sir Tho. Alleyn, Bar. aged 82, Son of Sir Tho. Lord Mayor at the Restauration; and is succeeded in Honour by Edm. Allen, Esq; his only surviving Brother. St. James's Ev.

Yesterday died of a Consumption Will. Rutty, M. D. Secretary to the Royal Society, in the flower of his age, to the great regret of all his friends and acquaintance; to whom he was very dear, on account of his many valuable qualities; which, together with his learning and eminent skill in his profession, had deservedly introduced him into considerable practice, which was increasing every day. D. Journ.


Friday, June 1.

Yesterday Tho. Charlesworth, lately convicted of forgery, was removed by an Habeas Corpus from the Fleet, where he was Prisoner for debt, to the King's Bench: but James Cox, found guilty with him, is got away. D. P.

Sat. the Master of the Rolls, upon hearing a Cause between Eliz. Williams, Plaint. and Eliz. Williams, Def. about 370l. per ann. in Carmarthenshire, in possession of the Def. as Heir at Law, and claimed by the Plaint. on proving her legitimacy; upon which there had been formerly a Trial at Hereford, and a Verdict for the Def, was pleased to order a new trial. Ibid.

Yesterday morning died James Bancroft, Esq; in Arundel-street, an Irish Gentleman, reputed to have died worth 40,000l. which devolves to his Son Tho. Bancroft, Esq; now in Dublin. Post Boy.

Wednesday a Gentleman of great fortune cut his throat in the Strand, whose Brother shot himself about a year ago. Ibid.

Yesterday 2 men in liquor near Tottenham High-cross, riding very briskly, one of them came with such force against a Gentleman coming that way, that both the horses were killed on the spot, and 'tis reported the Gentleman was killed by the fall. D. Journ.

Yesterday a Cooper in St. John's-street was seiz'd and carried before Justice Robe, being charged with a rape upon a certain young Woman. The Man considering the danger he was in, compounded the affair, by sending for a Clergyman from the Fleet, who married them at a Tavern in Smithfield, to the great joy of all parties. Post Boy.———Such precedents may prove of dangerous consequence, by introducing a very easy way of getting immediately either a portion, or a husband.


Saturday, June 13.

Monday commenced the election of a Knight of the Shire for the county of Northampton; the Candidates were Sir Justinian Isham, Bar. and Will. Hanbury, Esq; after the greatest struggle that has been known, Sir Just. carried it by 160 votes. Daily Post. 170 Courant, Post Bay, Daily Journ, The E. of Halifax left Northampton some hours before the Poll was cast up, and arrived on Thursd. night at his house in New-Palace Yard, Westmin. D. Post.

Monday Mr. Tho. Thurland, disordered in his senses cut his throat at a farm-house near Mitcham, and died on Wednesday. Courant.

A few days past they began to inclose a piece of ground, lately purchased of Sir Rich. Grosvenor, for a burying-place for the parish of St. John the Evang. Westm. in the road from the Horse-ferry to Tothill-fields. Post Boy.

Last night the Right Hon. L Harrington arrived in Town from Paris, with a great retinue. Daily Post.

Yesterday morning died at her house in Red-lion street, the Lady Witherington, Relict of Sir Franc. Witherington, of Froome in Somersetshire, Bar. Post Boy. The R. H. Lady Widdrington, Wife of the late L. Widdrington. D. Post.

Yesterday the great Cause some time depending in Chancery, between Rich Fitzgerald of Grays-Inn, Esq; and the R. H. L. Falconberge and his Lady, touching the estate late of Mr. Fowler, of St. Thomas in Staffordshire, was finally determined, and a moiety of it was decreed to Mr. Fitzgerald. D. Journ.

Dover, June 10. Monday Sir Tho. Twisden, and his Brother embarked here for France. The latter is gone upon his travels, and the former to attend him some little part of the way. Ibid.

Tuesday an indictment was found by the Grand Jury at Westminster against Matt. Delahay, a Sawyer, for wounding Hage Fortute, a native of Morocco, Butler to Sir Charles Wager. The Prosecutor being a Mahometan, was sworn upon the Alchoran. Even. Post. Benj. Hammed. St. James's and Lond. Even.

We hear that an eminent Attorney at law, well known in Westminster-hall, hath received orders to commence a prosecution against a Lady in the north, for breach of a marriage promise. St James's Even.

We hear Will. Benson, Esq; late one of the Secondaries of Wood-street Compter, hath brought his action against one of the Knights of the Bath, for having criminal conversation with his wife, and laid his damages (as we hear) at 10,000l. Lond. Evn.

This day Will. Lee, Esq; and Tho. Birch, of the Middle Temple, were called to the Dignity of Serjeants, at the Court of Common-Pleas, Westminster; they afterwards made a fine entertainment for the Judges, &c. at Serjeants Inn: which, and some other expences, we hear, cost above 500l. The motto for their rings is, Florent sub Casare leges. Ibid.

We hear the Candidates to succeed Dr. Rutty, deceased, as Secretary to the Royal Society, are Dr. Wiggan, Dr. Martyn, and Dr. Mortimer. Ibid.


Monday, June 15.

Windsor, June 12. On wednesday their Majesties, with his R. H. the Prince, &c. came hither about 4 in the afternoon from Richmond. Immediately upon their Arrival, his Grace the D. of St. Allans, High Steward of this Corporation, with the Mayor, Aldermen, and John Owen, Esq; the Recorder, waited on their Majesties; and Mr. Recorder made them a very handsom speech, suitable to the occasion, at which their Majesties expressed great satisfaction. In the evening there were bonfires, illuminations, and other publick demonstrations of joy, and yesterday being the anniversary of his Majesty's succession to the Crown, there was a numerous and splendid appearance at Court of the Nobility, foreign Ministers, and other persons of distinction, to compliment their Majesties thereupon; and the like demonstrations of joy were shewn throughout the whole Town as the preceding night, which were concluded by a magnificent Ball in the Town-hall. Daily Post.

Yesterday the R. H. L. Bingley, Treasurer of the Houshold, Sir Con. Darcy, Comptroller, and Sir Wm. Strickland, Secretary at war, were sworn of his Majesty's most Hon. Privy Council. D. Journ.

Saturday morn, the Person, who was to hop from the Plough at Clapham to the Unicorn at Stones-end in 4 hours, performed the same in little more than 3; after which he was to have drove Mr. Chambers, a Corn-factor, in a Wheel-barrow back to the Plough in 3 hours; but having got as far as the Swan, where the road turns off for Stockwell, he gave out, being unable to proceed further. The wagers won and left on this occasion, amounted to a very considerable sum of money. Ibid.———This wonderful Hopper, I think, ought to be sent with the forces on the expedition with Don Carlos; from which he may perhap return without the incumbrance of a superfluous leg, which he seems to have at present.

Tho. Oliphant won the wager, by running from Whitechappel Church to Rumford Turnpike in an hour and 8 minutes; the greatest performance ever known by a boy of his age. The other boy lost by 4 minutes. Post Boy. In an hour and 4 minutes. D. Journal.

Sir Rich. Sherard died last night at his house at Paddington. Cour.


Tuesday, June 16.

Yesterday the Marq. of Blandford with his Lady arrived here, and will speedily reside at his house, which is sitting up in Grosvenor-square. Post Boy.

Sunday the R. H. L. Harrington kissed his Majesty's hand, on his being made one of the Principal Secretaries of State. Ibid.

The Countess of Londonderry is arrived from St. Christopher's, with the Corpse of her Husband, who was Capt. Gen. and Commander in chief of the Leeward Islands. Daily Journal.

Yesterday one Fitz gerrald, a Sollicitor, was committed into the custody of the Marshal, by the Court of King's Bench, for falsly accusing Mr. Rob. Waddilove and Mr. Nat. Gunter, 2 eminent Attornies, who enter'd into recognizance to prosecute him for wilful perjury. Ibid.

A Gentlewoman going in her chariot on surday in the afternoon from Low layton to Woodford, was robbed by a highway-man of half a guinea, &c. He was observed to go into the woods, where he was seiz'd, and committed to Chelmsford Goal. He is said to be an Apprentice to an Upholsterer in Bishopsgate-street. Ibid.

This day John Huggins, Esq; was brought from Newgate to the King's Bench Bar at Westminster, when the special verdict against him for the murder of Mr. Arne, who dy'd in durance, by being over burden'd with irons and other extravagant hardships, was learnedly argu'd: upon which it appear'd that a murder had been committed by some-body; but whether or no Mr. Huggins was guilty of the same, was the question then before the Court, which being a matter that required consideration, the Court did not come to a determination, so that a farther hearing thereof is, we hear, to be at Serjeant's-inn hall in Chancery-lane, before the 12 Judges. After which, the Council for the prisoner mov'd, that Mr. Huggins might be admitted to bail; but the same being opposed by Mr. Attorney General, the Court did not grant it. St. James's Even.


Wednesday, June 17.

Sunday Night about 10. Mr. Stoneleyton, a master carpenter in Ratcliff Highway was attack'd in Goodman's Fields, by one footpad, in a sailor's jacket, who came up to him with a knife in his hand, swearing he would cut his throat if he cry'd out, and then rifled him of his watch and 6s. in money. He had a ring upon one of his fingers, which the villain observed, and some people advancing, he cut his finger off at the upper joint, and then dropped his knife, and made off. There is T. H. in a cypher upon the handle of the knife. Post Boy.

Yesterday James West a Waterman was committed to Newgate, on the Oath of Eliz. Lardan, for having carnal knowledge of her body, in a forcible manner. Courant.

Mond. Tho. Mackworth, Esq; was married to Miss Mavia Read, Daught. of Will. Reed of Durham, Esq: a fortune of 1600 l. Post Boy.

Edinburgh, June 4. L. Gen. Wade's heavy baggage is arrived at the E. of Murray's lodgings in Cannon-gate, and his Excellency is on the road coming down. Cour. 11.

June 3. Friday about 11 in the forenoon, a boat sail'd from Haws for North-ferry with Wool-packs, &c. and a sudden squall of wind arising, the boat, being crowded with sail, was run down at once; whereby the Skipper, 3 boat-men, and a boy, with passengers, perished. 2 men, a woman, and a boy, got safe on the other side; but 'tis said the woman is since dead. The corpse of Mrs. Marg. Deans was interred this day, aged 100 years. Mr. Frazer, of Strichan, was admitted one of the Lords of Council and Session. D. Post.

Dublin, June 2. Frid. died of a malignant fever Pierce Bener Hasset, Esq; Counsellor at Law: and on sunday of the same distemper, Mr. James Webb, a noted Attorney. Post Boy, 13.

June 6. The Rev. Dr. Delany is made Chancellor of St. Patrick's in the room of Dr. Ed. Synge, now Bishop of Clonsert, who was consecrated last sunday. Dean Sawbridge is to be tried next monday. D. Journal.

Boston in New-England, May 4. The following Advertisement hath been published here, sign'd by the select men of this Town, viz. We being informed, that many persons belonging to the adjacent Towns intend to come into this Town, to have the small-pox inoculated upon them, which, we apprehend, would be much damage to this place; this is therefore to give notice, that if any person or persons, not belonging to this Town, shall presume to come into it, upon the aforesaid occasion, he or they shall be prosecuted according to law. Cour. 12.

Philadelphia, Apr. 30. On the 14th, between 10 and 11 at night the greatest fire happened in this city, that ever has been known here. It began in a store among rigging. The loss sustained amounts to several thousand pounds. Post Boy, 13.


From the Pegasus in Grub Street.

The Society being informed, that Mr. Kirleus, resenting the disapppointment in not being chosen their Book-seller in April last, had from that time spoken very disrespectfully of them; and was even the Author of the Letter published against them in the Daily Journal, May 23. of which some notice was taken in theirs, N° 21, they ordered the following short remonstrance to be drawn up, as the sense of this learned Body.

That they thought that their whole conduct in relation to that election had been very much to the honour of Mr. Kirleus; and for this they appealed to their Journals, N° 4 and 15; from the latter of which it will appear, that the very Person who opposed that Gentleman's being elected their Book-seller, at the same time declar'd, that he ought to be chosen a Member. They very much approve his having lately cleared his Literatory of Books of Antiquities, more proper for a Dutch Genius; and retaining only such as relate to Biography, secret History, natural Philosophy, and Poetry, subjects much more suitable to the brightness of his parts. They desire him, whenever he casts his eyes upon the Titles of these, not much to regard the printed names; but to reflect and call to mind the real Authors, which would continually put him in mind of his obligations to our Society. That he would find all his wealth and reputation in the world were originally owing to his acquaintance with our Members, who were still willing to contribute to the advancement of both.


The following Copy of verses is taken from the Carmina Quadragesimalia; to which a Translation is subjoined by an unknown hand
 An Causæ sint sibi invicem Causæ? Aff.
Authore invito, tenues mandare libellos
 Furtivis solitus Bibliopola typis,
Ultores pueros deceptus fraude maligna
 Sensit ab excusso missus in astra sago.
Nec satis hoc: mensâ late porrectus acerna
 Supplicium rigidæ sert puerile scholæ:
Jam virga impatiens pueris convitia sundit,
 Vicinique crepat jurgia nota Fori.
Flagra minas misero extorquent repetita; minasque
 Quo magis ingeminat, vapulat ille magis.

Whether Causes can be mutual? They may.
MUCH had Pyratic Mun by pamphlets got:
For print he would, if Authors would, or not.
By vengeful boys decoy'd, he takes ten flights
From blanket, loftier than from Grub-street hights,
Nay more: stretch'd out at length on maple board,
Feels the sharp pains in rigid schools abhorr'd.
Impatient of the rod, 'Ye dogs uncivil,
He cries, 'by ——— I'll sue you to the Devil.
Blows urge his threats, his threats more lashes bring:
The more Mun raves, the more these hornets sting.

Mr. Bavius objected against the impropriety of translating late porrectus, by stretched out at length. But Mr. Mavius vindicated it, by saying, that one of the Agents had assured him, that the Patient was stretch'd out as length, as well as in bredth; and therefore the Translator, as well as the Author, might chuse which he pleased.


Mr. J. M. S———e catechized on his one Epistle to Mr. Pope.
WHAT makes you write at this odd rate?
Why, Sir, it is to imitate.
What makes you steal and trifle so?
Why 'tis to do, as others do.
But there's no meaning to be seen!
Why, that's the very thing I mean.


Extempore Verses occasioned by a late Sermon.
Augusta, chief of Cities, raise thy head;
Recall the Actions, of the Patriot dead.
What wou'd your great, your good Fore-fathers say,
When their degenerate Sons their fears betray?
 No servile awe forsook fair Freedom's Cause;
Their Lives shone forth, a pattern of their Laws.
Religion bore not then an empty Name:
True to their God, their practice was their same:
And when for Blessings taught their Thanks to give,
No sleepy Zealots pass'd their negative.

Whereas it has been reported, that a certain Wit received a damage from a match at Cudgel-paying, we are informed that the said report is utterly false, the said Wit being perfectly sound and unhurt, and never stirring from his lodging all that day. And we also hear, that if the said Wit will please but to signify where he lodges, or may be found, a certain Gentleman will wait upon him, and if is is untrue, ask his Pardon.


FOREIGN NEWS.

Thursday, June 11.

Yesterday arrived the Mail from France.

Paris, June 17. N. S. The King's picture, just finished by M. Rigault, was exposed last week in the Hall of audience at Versailles. It is one of that celebrated Painter's Master pieces: and is to be sent back hither to M. Drevet, to engrave a Print from it; and M. Rigault is to make 2 copies, 1 of which is to be sent to the King of Spain. The 2 great bells, weighing 40,000 pounds each, and 4 lesser, cast here for the King of Portugal, have been found to be very harmonious, and free from defect. The 2 big ones are 12 foot and half high. Cour.

Verseilles, June 15. The King has given the Count de St. Maure, the office of Vice Admiral of the Levant; and nominated M. de la Roche Allart, Lieutenant General of the navy. Post Boy.

Lisbon, May 11. It is advised from Tetuan, that the people of the kingdom of Sus having refuted to acknowledge King Muley Abdallah for their sovereign, that Prince had sent against them an army of 40,000 men, at the head of which he intended to put himself the beginning of next month. Daily Post.

Rome, May 24. The sacred College have received advice, that the late Earthquake, which was felt on the 12th, had done much damage in the Towns of Nercia, [Norcia] Aquila, Cascia, Virsa, Matrica, Monteleone; that there had been 3 shocks at Norcia, the last of which was so violent that all the houses were thrown down, excepting the Town house and 2 Convents. The Chevalier de St George is preparing to set out on the 27th to go and pass part of the summer at Albano. Ibid.———May 27. We learn that the Town of Sulmone has been entirely destroyed by an Earthquake. St. James's Even.


Friday, June 12.

Rome, May 27. We hear from Naples, that the blood of the glorious St. Gennaro, which used to be congealed and only liquified upon its being brought before the Saint's head, was found liquified in the place where it's kept, which has put the whole kingdom into a great consternation; such an accident being supposed to portend some dire event. Ibid.


Saturday, June 13.

Florence, May 27. It was doubted at Genoa, whether the Corsicans would return to their duty, because they seem more inclined to change Masters, so that it is to be feared they have secret assurances of Protection from some Power or other. Courant.


Monday, June 15.

On saturday arrived 2 Flanders, and 1 Holland Mail; and yesterday 1 from France, and 1 from Flanders.

From the Camp at Mulhburg, June 8. The Kings of Poland and Prussia have been employed till now, in the general review of the army, with great satisfaction: and his Prussian Majesty was much surprized, that his Polish Majesty could bring so many fine Troops into the field; who have performed their exercises with as much dexterity as the most veteran soldiers. It is assured, that after the raising of this Camp, 12,000 men of the Saxon Troops will march into the Empire, for the Emperor's service. D. Journ.

Hambourg, June 16. Letters from Mecklembourg confirm the arrival of D. Cha. Leopold of Mecklembourg in his dominions. He landed the 8th at Ribnitz, went to Swerin, and took up his lodging in the castle. He sent afterwards to Domitz for his Chief Ministers and his Chancery, (who went to him) having resolved to make Swerin the place of his residence: and he has given orders for the raising a Troop of Life-guards. We are persuaded this Prince would not have returned into his dominions, had he not been well assured, that he might continue there in safety. What gives us reason to form this judgment is, that he did not go from Dantzick, till after the return of an express he had sent to Moscow. They write from Petersburg, that the Admiralty had received orders to fit out 9 men of war, 9 fregates, and some gallies, on board of which troops were to be embarked. D. Post.

Vienna, June 7. Two Expresses ere just arrived, 1 from Paris, and the other from Brussels, A rumour is spred, that they have brought new proposals on the part of the Allies of Seville for an amicable accommodation. Nevertheless the Generals, who are to command in Italy, are ordered to repair thither forthwith; and Gen. Philippi, one of them, is to go by Turin, to execute a Commission there on the part of the Emperor. My L. Waldegrave has taken his leave, in order to return to London. The extraordinary armaments are still carried on, with as much vigour as ever, throughout the Hereditary Dominions.


Tuesday, June 16.

This day arrived the Mails from Holland, France, and Flanders.

Hague, June 20. N. S. We cannot yet resolve the grand question, which keeps all Europe in suspence; namely, what answer the Emperor will make to the last proposals of the Allies of Seville. Letters from Paris and London agree, that all things are at a stand till the return of the Expresses sent to Vienna, which is impatiently expected. Mean time Count Coningsek has frequent Conferences with the Cardinel de Fleury; and as he is an old stager in the affairs of politicks, it is not doubted but he is in the secret of the Negotiation, and will conduct things to the point the Emperor has in view; which is the more probable, because the Cardinal and another prime Minister wish it as heartily as his Imperial Majesty himself, and are back'd herein by this state, which would be very loth to engage in a War.———Notwithstanding what the News Papers have said of the King of Sardinia's acceding to the Treaty of Seville; we are well assur'd, that Prince has declar'd he will remain Neuter: But at the same time, he has given the Most Christian King to understand, that if he should have occasion to send any Troops thro' his Territories, he will not refuse them passage upon some conditions. St. James's Even.


Wednesday, June 17.

Amsterdam, June 10. Thursday last, betimes in the morning, it was observed by the populace, that 16 Coffins were carried from their City-house, or Guildhall: which Coffins were supposed to contain Bodies that, had been privately executed for Sodomy, of the richer sort of people; and that morning about 29 persons, of mean extraction, were to have been publickly executed for the like Crime; but the populace rising in arms, and demanding publick execution of the rich as well as of the poor, (there then being about 300 of all Ranks in prison in that City, accused of that crime, and some of them of great Note and Substance) the Magistrates were oblig'd to send to the Hague for assistance to quell this Mob, which was very outragious; upon which 1000 Soldiers were sent to their assistance. Daily Journal.


Prices of Goods at Bear Key on Monday.
	per Quarter
Wheat 	20 to 28
Rye 	12 to 13
Barley 	12 to 13
Oats 	8 to 12
Horse Beans 	18 to 21
Hog Peas 	12 to 15
Boiling Peas 	20 to 25
Pale Malt 	16 to 21
Brown Malt 	15 to 18
Tares 	22 to 24
Coals 	22 s. to 25 s. per Chaldron.
Hops 1728 	20 s. to 29 s. per Hundred.
Hops 1729 	30 s. to 60s. per Hundred.
Rape Seed 13l. to 16l. per Last.

The Course of the Exchange.

    Amsterdam 34 6
    Ditto at Sight 34 3
    Rotterdam 34 7
    Antwerp 35
    Hamburgh 33 1 5th
    Paris at Sight 32 5 8ths
    Bourdeaux at sight 32 1 half
    Cadiz 42 1 half
    Madrid 42 5ths a 1 half
    Bilboa 42 1 8th
    Leghorn 51 1 half
    Genoa 54 1 half
    Venice 49
    Lisbon 5s. 6d. 1 half a 3 8ths
    Porto 5s. 5d. 1 half a 3 8ths
    Dublin 11

On Tuesday Stocks were

South-Sea 103 5 8ths. South Sea Annuity 106 5 8ths. Bank 141 1 4th. India 190, 189 3 4ths. Three per Cent. Annuity 96 1 4th. Million Bank 107. African 46. York Buildings 17. Royal Assurance (100 l. paid in) 94 1 4th. London ditto (13 l. paid in) 12 1 8th. Bank Circulation 7l. 15s. South Sea Bonds 4l. 13s. India ditto 5l. 3s. English Copper 3l. 15s. Welch ditto 2l. 11s.


To the Worthy Livery-Men of the City of LONDON.

Gentlemen,

YOUR Vote and Interest are humbly desired for

HENRY RAPER, Esq;

Citizen and Painter-Stainer;

AND

JAMES CHAMBERS, Esq;

Citizen and Goldsmith;

To be Sheriffs of this City and County of Middlesex, for the Year ensuing; who are the Two foremost in the List of those Gentlemen that for many Years past have been nominated by several Lord Mayors to serve that Office.

N.B. It has been unanimously resolved in Common-Council, that for the future all Sheriffs Fines shall be appropriated ONLY towards building a Mansion-House for the Lord Mayor, so much wanted to support the Honour and Dignity of this Great City.


ADVERTISEMENTS.
Speedily will be published,
Number II.
[To be continued.]

AN Author to be Lett: Being a History of the past and present Transactions of the Members of the Bathos: In which will be fully and faithfully delineated the character of that modest, ingenious, tall, young Man Jemmy Moore Smythe. By Iscarios Hackney.

We, being neither Scholars, Doctors, nor Divines, call our selves Gentlemen; which sure no body will deny, because one of us the Son of a Footman, One, &c.

Grub street Journal, No 19.

N.B. Soon after will also be published, The Gentlemen of the Dunciad. A Poem. By Mr. Savage, with a Preface.

Printed for L. Gilliver, at Homer's Head against St. Dunstan's Church, Fleet-street.


Just published,

Printed on a superfine Paper, in two Volumes in Quarto,

SOME Observations made in travelling through France, Italy, &c. in the Years 1720, 1721 and 1722: Containing a large and particular Account of the most remarkable Curiosities in those Countries, as well such as relate to their Manners, Customs, religious Orders, Ceremonies, &c. as likewise of their Architecture, Paintings, Sculpture, and other Antiquities, which are esteemed most worthy of the Observation of an English Traveller. With some short Remarks on the Air, Soil, Productions, Trade, Manufactures at several Places, occasionally interspersed. By Edward Wright, Esq; illustrated with 40 curious Drawings, design'd upon the Spot by the Author, and engrav'd on Copper by the best Hands.

Printed for Messieurs Ward and Wicksteed in the Inner Temple Lane.


Just publish'd,

THE Female Parson; or, Beau in the Sudds. An Opera, as it is acted at the New Theatre in the Hay-market. By Mr. Charles Coffey, Author of the Beggar's Wedding.

Printed for Fran. Cogan, at the Middle-Temple-gate in Fleet-street, and Lawton Gillver over against St. Dunstan's Church. Price one Shilling.

Where may be had,

The Amours of Philario and Olinda; or, the Intrigues of Windsor: A genuine History. Price one Shilling. Also

An ESSAY founded on Arguments Natural and Moral, proving the Immortality of the Soul. Translated from the Original Manuscript of the Archbishop of Cambray. Price one Shilling.


This Day is publish'd

AN Essay upon Poetry and Painting, with relation to the Sacret and Profane History. With an Appendix concerning Obscenity in Writing and Painting.
Ut Picture Poesis,
Dabiturque Licentia sumpta pudenter,
Diice docendus adhue quid censet amiculus:
Ut si Caecus iter munstrare velit.

By Charles Lamotte, D.D., F.R.S., Member of the Society of Antiquaries, and Chaplain to his Grade the Duke of Montague. Printed for F. Fayram, at the South Entrance of the Royal Exchange, and J. Leake, Bookseller at Bath.


Just published,

TWO Epistles to Mr. Pope concerning the Authors of the Age. And the Merchant; on Trade, Navigation and Peace. Designed to give a new but just Idea, of the Pindaric Ode, and to shew the Scripture Style of the Prophets, highly proper for it. Dedicated to the Duke of Chandos.

Both by the Author of the Universal Passion.

Printed for Lawton Gilliver at Homer's Head against St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet-street.



Just published,

THE Law against Bankrupts: Or, a Treatise wherein the Statutes against Bankrupts are explained by several Cases, Resolutions, Judgments, and Decrees, both at Common-Law, and in Chancery. Together with the Learning of Declarations and Pleadings relating thereunto. To which are likewise added, Forms and Directions for Commissioners, and Precedents fit for the perusal of all Lawyers, Merchants and Tradesmen.

Sic utere tuis, ut aliena non Lædas.

The fifth Edition. To which is now added, An Appendix of all the Statutes relating to Bankrupts, to the Year 1725. By Tho. Goodinge, Serjeant at Law. Printed by E. and R. Nutt, and R. Gosling, (Assigns of Edward Sayer, Esq;) for F. Cogan, at the Middle-Temple Gate Fleet-street.


This Day is Publish'd

The Third Edition, corrected, adorn'd with a new Sett of Cutts,

And the Effigies of Mr. BUTLER,

Curiously engraved by Mr. Vander Guelt, and beautifully printed in one neat Pocket-Volume, in the same Stile of Hudibras, the entire three Volumes of

THE Posthumous Works of Mr. SAMUEL BUTLER, Author of Hudibras. Written in the Time of the Grand Rebellion, and in the Reign of King Charles II. Being a Collection of inimitable Satires, Speeches and Reflections upon those Times. Published from Original MSS. and scarce and valuable Pieces formerly printed.

Printed by and for Richard Reily in Little Britain; and sold by the Booksellers of London and Westminster.

Of whom may be had, just published,

PARALLELS of the Sounds and Syllables of the FRENCH and ENGLISH Languages; or, the French Pronunciation made easy to the English Learner. Being a certain easy and speedy Method suited to all Capacities, by which Learners may of themselves, without the Assistance of any Master, attain the true Pronunciation of the French Tongue. A Work never before attempted.


This Day is Publish'd

THE LIFE of the Right Rev. Dr. White Kennett, late Lord Bishop of Peterborough; with several original Letters of the late Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr. Tennison; the late Earl of Sunderland; Bishop Kennett, &c. and some curious original Papers and Records, never before published. And also

The Foreigner's Guide: Or, a necessary and instructive Companion, both for the Foreigner and Native, in their Tour through the Cities of London and Westminster. Giving,

1st. A general Description of these two Cities, with an Account of their respective Government.

2dly. A Description of the Royal Palaces, Noblemens Houses, publick Buildings, Churches, Streets, Squares, and the most remarkable Places in and near the famous Metropolis: With an Account of the Inns of Court, Royal Society, publick Walks, Diversions, remarkable Days, Court Days, Post Days. And,

3dly. A Description of the several villages in the Neighbourhood; as Chelsea, Kensington, Richmond, Greenwich, Woolwich, Hampstead; and also others more remote, viz. Hampton-Court, Windsor, Oxford, Cambridge, Blenheim, New-Market Horse Races, Epson, Tunbridge, Bath. And,

4thly. An Account of the Rates of Coaches, Watermen; and also the Rates of Post Horses; with the Roads to Dover and Harwich.

Very useful and entertaining both to Foreigner and Native, and done into English and French.

Where may be had,

LOVE LETTERS on all Occasions, lately passed between Persons of Distinction. Collected by Mrs. Eliza. Haywood,
Pleasure with Sorrow, Peace with War allay'd,
Liberty fetter'd, Hope by Fear dismay'd;
Imbitter'd Honey, Earnest mix'd with Play,
Are, Love! the Emblems of thy sov'reign Sway.

Printed for, and sold by Francis Cogan, at the Middle Temple Gate in Fleet-street.


Just published,

PROPOSALS for Printing by Subscription, a beautiful and correction Edition of ROBERTI STEPHANI Thesaurus Lingue Latinæ. Compared with the best Editions of the Classics, the References adjusted and supplied by J. MARTYN, F.R.S., and the whole corrected and revised from the Press by R. RUSSEL, M.A.

The great Usefulness of this Work having render'd it scarce (tho' it has passed four Impressions) that the best Edition is now sold for at least sixteen Pounds, it is presumed that the Re-printing of it, with these Improvements, will be very acceptable to all the Learned in Europe.

This Work is to be printed from the last Edition (printed at Lyons, containing 653 Sheets, divided into four Tomes) and will be rendered much more useful, by citing not only the Books but Chapters of the Prose Authors, and even the Lines of the Poets; which being adapted to the improved Editions of the Classics, we doubt not will be as agreeable to the Studious, as laborious to the Editors.

It will be printed in the same Manner, and on as good Paper, as the Specimen annexed to the Proposals.

The Price to Subscribers will be six Guineas a Sett in Sheets; only one to be paid down, two on the Delivery of the first Volume (which will contain about 170 Sheets) and one more for each of the other three Volumes.

Some Copies will be printed on a larger Paper for the Curious, at nine Guineas a Sett in Sheets; two to be paid down, two for the first Volume, two for the second, one for the third, and two for the last.

As soon as 200 are subscribed for, the Work shall be put to Press.

The Names and Titles of the Subscribers will be prefixed to the first Volume.

When the Subscription is closed, the Price will be raised to eight Guineas for the small Paper, and twelve the large.

Receipts for the Subscription-Money are signed by all the Proprietors, which they will pay into the Hands of Francis Child, Esq; Alderman, and return it to the Subscribers by Christmas next, if there is not sufficient Encouragement.

Subscriptions are taken in by the Editors; and J. Ratley, at the Dove in Pater-Noster Row; A. Vandenhoeck, at Virgil's Head, over-against the New Church in the Strand; F. Cogan, at the Middle-Temple-Gate, Fleet-Street; and by the Printers, S. Palmer and J. Huggonson, in Bartholomew-Close.


Books printed and sold by John Brotherton at the Bible in Cornhill.

    Life of Oliver Cromwel, 8vo.
    Collection of Novels, 12mo, 6 Vol.
    D'Ano's Tales of the Fairies, 3 Vol. 12mo.
    Free Thoughts on Religion.
    Pilgrim's Progress in 8vo, with Cuts, 2 Vol.
    Spectators, 8 Vol.
    Prideaux Connection, 4 Vol.
    Musical Misc. 4 Vol. 8vo.
    The Dancing Master, by Mr. John Essex, 4to.
    Boyer's Telemachus, 12mo.
    Gay's Fables, 8vo.
    Gordon's Geog. Grammar.
    Boyer's Dictionary in 4to, or 8vo.
    Blais's Sermons, 5 Vol. 8vo.
    Shakespear's Plays.
    Addison's Works, 4 Vol.
    Lockyer's Trade to India
    Abelard's Letters
    Garth's Ovid, 2 Vol.
    Plutarch's Lives, 8 Vol.
    Don Quixot, 2 Vol.
    Guardians, 2 Vol.
    Ovid's Epistles
    Dryden's Virgil.


This Day is Published,
(Price Four Pence.)
A General History of Executions, Numb. IV
(To be continued.)

COntaining an Account of the Lives and Actions of the two following Malefactors executed at Tyburn the first Instant, viz. John Doyle, a successful Highwayman, and John Young, a barbarous robber. Also of six Malefactors try'd and condemn'd at the Lent Assizes, before the late Lord Chief Baron Pengelly, and Mr. Justice Fortescue Allend, and executed at Heavytree Gallows near Exeter, two of them protesting their Innocence to the last.

Printed by R. Newton, at St. John's-Gate, and sold by the Booksellers in Town and Country.

Where may be had, Price 4d each,

Numb. I. containing the Life of Everett, a noted Highwayman, of Goodburn, a Poet, and of two other Malefactors executed at the same Time.

Numb. II. containing an Account of five Malefactors, and a Description of a large Gang of Thieves and Cheats, which infest at Times all parts of the Kingdom; of great Use to Officers of Parishes, and private Persons, for guarding against and detecting the said Rogues.

Numb. III. Containing an ample Relation of the noted Villain James Dalton, and of his Robberies for 20 years. Oh Hugh Houghton the Bristol Mail Robber; and three others.

Note, This Work meeting with Encouragement will be continued every Sessions, and the Numbers regularly published soon after the execution, and will contain an Account of the Criminals executed and transported throughout England, in order to make a compleat Volume at the Year's End, when a general Index will be given for that Purpose.


LONDON: Printed for Capt. Gulliver and F. Cogan near the Temple, Mr. Jackson in Pall-Mall, and J. Brotherton near the Exchange, and Sold by J. Roberts in Warwick-Lane, where Letters and Advertisements, &c. are taken in. [Price Two Pence.]

