The Grub-street Journal — April 2nd, 1730

Exported from Wikisource on May 12, 2026

Numb. 13.

The Grub-street Journal.

* * *

Thursday, APRIL 2. 1730.

* * *

Persist, by all divine in man unaw'd;

But learn, ye Dunces, not to scorn your God.

Dunciad, Book III.

IT was formerly usual, for those who oppos'd the religious opinions generally received in their own Country, to advance something very remarkable either in the matter, or the manner of their Compositions, which might raise in the World a favourable opinion at least of their learning or their parts, or both. There was still something either in the discovery of some obscure part of literature, or in the subtlty of the argument, or the brightness of the thoughts, or the wittiness of the ridicule, or the elegancy of the stile, which ingaged persons to read such pieces; to that those who abhorred the tenets, could not but be pleased with the manner of delivering them to the world. But of late years men have been so much inclined to infidelity, that the retailers of it have not thought any of these recommendations necessary to the vending of their poison, knowing that the very employment itself would raise an opinion that they had them. Thus a reverend, unsuccessful Author, who had by publishing several whimsical pieces, in vain endeavoured to make them and himself public, (the pieces as well as the Author for many years continuing in the darkest obscurity) bethought himself at last of writing against the miracles of our Saviour. Upon this he became immediately famous, and was admired for his wit and learning by some, who, pretending to both, have a very small stock of either, and make a considerable party in the world.

This invective of his against our blessed Saviour consists of such low jokes, and such opprobrious language, that, if we may form a judgment of the wit of the Gallilæan Fisher-men, by that of the Fisher-men and Water-men on the Thames, Judas himself would have written with more vivacity and elegancy against the miracles of his master, than the learned and ingenious Mr. Woolston. That Faith which stopped the mouths of lions, he hop'd (to use one of his own polite comparisons) might be suppressed by the braying of asses: and that religion which had born up against the Roman Eagles, and all the grave Owls of Athens, was to be hooted off the Stage by the grinning Owls of Grub-street.

I am really sorry to own, that this Gentleman was formerly of our Society: but elevated by his success, he has for a good while absented himself from our meetings, and thereby saves us the trouble of expelling him out of it. For we are fully resolved to discountenance all irreligious nonsense, leaving our Members at full liberty to exert their talents in all other kinds.

Upon this account we think ourselves obliged to take notice of a Pamphlet lately published by an anonymous Author, who is probably a Member of our Society.

He has indeed a little more modesty than his Brother Woolston, by suppressing his name; and it had been more for the Reputation of the Dissenters, if his Book-seller had imitated his example. The Title of this Pamphlet runs thus, The materiality or the mortality of the Soul of man, and its sameness with the Body, asserted and proved from the Holy Scriptures of the Old and New Testament: shewing, that, upon the death of the Body, all sensation and consciousness utterly cease, till the resurrection of the dead. A pompous title page, written in the Grubæan manner, every word of which is strictly true excepting three, and proved———shewing. It is not my design to write an answer to his learned arguments; but shall only give a specimen of the Author's learning and ingenuity in his interpretations of Scripture, which whoever reads, will, I believe, hardly trouble themselves to consider his arguments.

He says, pag. 1. What I undertake to prove from the authority of Holy Writ, is———That by the word Soul in scripture is every where meant the Body only. Tho' there are a great many places of Scripture from which the truth of this assertion is as evident, as from those that follow, yet I shall mention only such as are quoted in the Pamphlet itself, Gen. xxxv. 18. And it came to pass as her soul [body] was in departing (for she died) &c. Her body it seems was departing to the grave. 1 King xvii. 21. 12. O Lord, my God, I pray thee, let this Child's soul [body] come into him again. And the Lord heard the voice of Elijah, and the soul [body] of the Child came to him again. Our Author says, it is in the original, Return, or restore, or relieve, I pray thee, the soul [body] the child upon his inwards, p 13. According to which interpretation, the Child seems to have been turned inside outward by his sickness; and his inwards to have recover'd their proper place upon the Prophet's prayer, his soul [body] being restored or relieved upon them.

Job xiv. 22. His flesh upon him shall have pain, and his soul [i.e. his body] within him shall mourn. To prevent the objection of the impropriety of the body's being said to be within him; it is observed, that the Hebrew word is the same, which is rendered both within and upon; and that the phrase is only pathetically varied, while the meaning is the same, as is usual enough in warm and poetical descriptions, p. 22.

Is. iii. 12. He (that is Christ) hath poured out his soul [or body] unto death, p. 21. Poured out his body? out of what? Why, out of his soul or body; for they are the same. Here the body is got to be the inwards, otherwise it could not be poured out and if it be poured out of any thing, it must be out of the body: so that the body is both the inwards and outwards too.

Mat. x. 28. Fear not them which kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul [or body]; but rather fear him, which is able to destroy both soul [i.e. body] and body in hell. Who are those, whom we are not to fear? Such as kill the body, and yet are not able to kill the body. And who are we to fear? Him who can destroy both body and body in hell.

This Author is allowed to write nonsence by way of argument; but he is forbid to make nonsence of the Scriptures, in order to revive an old exploded error, long since since dead and buried.

The re-publishing of this dream of the mortality or sleep of the soul is somewhat stranger, since it proceeds from a principle which has been formerly thought a good argument for the immateriality thereof, I mean, the desire of immortal Fame.

This ardent desire animates the Writers of our Society, at least as much as the desire of money, particularly those who endeavour to signalize themselves by opposing the general opinions of the world. Poets are in a more especial manner actuated by this universal Passion; of which we received an instance last week, in a letter from the King's-bench prison, desiring us to insert in our Journal a Copy of verses written there. Being willing to show our readiness to oblige our learned Correspondents, and sensible of the great disappointment and mortification it is to a Poet, to refuse to print his Compositions, it was resolved to do it, as a piece of charity, very proper at this season; which will probably conduce as much to the ease of the Author's mind, as pecuniary relief would to that of his body; and which, we believe, he prefers, even in his present distresses, to the other. And, perhaps, the publication may excite persons of ability to exercise even the latter, towards those, whose case, notwithstanding the late wise and charitable care of the House of Commons, is still very deplorable.

SIR, King's-Bench prison, March 18, 1729.

AS you have advanc'd the ablest Pen in behalf of Dullness that ever I could find among her Votaries, either antient or modern; it is encouragement enough for us dull Scribblers, in this dull Region, to impart our dull sentiments to you her Champion upon the most dull and melancholly Subjects.

The following Lines were writen in answer to a Friend's Letter, who sent to enquire about the Author's Case in Jail; and it you think they will be no more scandal to your Society, the publication of them will oblige several of your well-wishers, and particularly, Sir,

Your humble Servant,

Philomusus.

I.

What pleasure, Friend, in this most dismal Den,

Can you expect from my neglected Pen?

 The Pen which has been lad aside,

 E'er since I left my bleating Flocks:

 The Notes which once did smoothly glide,

 Like gentle Thames's copious Tide,

Sound harsh and dismal as the hollow Rocks.

II:

 My Harp has lain long time unstrung,

Loves flowing numbers quite forgotten are;

 Th' ill-fated Lovers in despair,

  Who on the Willows hung,

 Have died without an Elegy.

 Since I forsook the World and thee,

   Nor I their Dirges sung.

III.

 The Muses, whom I courted long,

  Forsook me when confin'd;

 Nor can I say they did me wrong,

  In being thus unkind:

 For had they stay'd to grace my Songs,

  My fame had been preserv'd;

 But they could not redress my Wrongs,

And must have been with me themselves half-starv'd.

IV.

  There was a time, when plac'd,

'Midst store of Friends who still my Table grac'd,

  A peasant graceful Sight,

 When dainty Cheer and flowing Bowls

 With Mirth exalted all their Souls,

  I seem'd their chief Delight.

But now that pleasant Sight is seen no more:

They all are fled, but those who too are poor.

V.

 The very Pastors of the Church,

Who suck melt orthodoxly by my Ale,

  Since that and wine did fail,

  Have left me in the lurch:

 Perhaps neglect me in their Pray'rs;

 Their ghostly council is not given;

And since I cannot pay their palt'ral cares

 I'm left to guess the Way to Heaven.

The Reader is desired not to find fault with these verses, unless he is certain that under the same circumstances he can write better. Bavius.

Gentlemen are desired to direct their Letters to Mr. Bavius, Secretary to the Grub-street Society. To be left at Mr. Roberts in Warwick-lane.

* * *

LONDON.

Thursday, March 26.

On monday last died at his lodgings in this city, Sir Cleave Moor, of Moore-Hall in Lancashire, Bar. and is succeeded in dignity by his Son, Joseph Edmonds, of Barkhamstead in Hertfordshire, Esq; who for 8 years past hath been possessed of an estate of above 2000 l. per ann. left him by his Grandfather, Joseph Edmonds of Hertfordshire aforesaid, Esq; D. Post. 4 Even Post.

On tuesday last in the afternoon came on before the Right Rev. the Bishop of Winchester, (as Visitor) assisted by Dr. Sayer and Dr. Wood, (his Chancellor) the hearing of the appeal of the Rev. Mr. Ayscough, against Corpus Chrifti College, Oxford, for expelling him from his fellowship in the said College some months since, without assigning (either then or since) any cause whatever. The council for Mr. Ayscough were Dr. Andrews, and Dr. Paul and for the College Dr Henchman, and Dr. Strahan. The College pretended, that they were accountable to no body for their conduct; for that the Right was in them, and the Bishop had no visitatorial power over them: but that was soon over-ruled, many Precedents being produced to the contrary and after a hearing of about 3 hours, the Bishop decreed, that the college should restore Mr. Ayscough to his fellowship, with all profits, &c. from the time of his expulsion; and that such of the Fellows (not the College) that were concern'd in expelling him, should pay all the cost. Ibid.

Last night several persons were apprehended at an Alehouse by the 7 Dials, on suspicion of Sodomy; and being examined before a justice of the peace, 3 of them were committed to new prison, 2 were bailed, and the rest discharged. Daily Journal, 4 Even Posts.

Yesterday notice was given to all Peers, Peeresses, and Privy Councilors, that the Court goes into mourning on sunday next, for the Electress of Bavaria, and the Landgrave of Hesse-Cassel. The Ladies to wear black silk or velvet, plain or fringed linnen, black and white fans and tippets, the Men to wear black cloth or velvet, plain linnen, black swords, and buckles. Post Boy, the Even. St. James's, and Whitehall Even. Posts.

Two persons were committed to the county Goal of Surrey on monday sat, on suspicion of having robbed the Gloucester and Worcester Stage Coaches, and other Robberies on monday the 16th instant. One of the persons is a thin man, wearing a brown natural wig, about 5 foot 7 inches high, and about 28 years of age: he had on when taken up a blue close-bodied Coat, with plate buttons. The other is a swarthy complexioned man, about the same age and height: he had on when taken a silver-edg'd hat, a grizzle bob wig, and a light coloured drab coat, with plate buttons. There is a lively bay Gelding which belongs to them, with a blaze in his face. D. Journal St. James's, Whitehall and Lond. Even. Posts.

Dr. Barker, one of the Prebends of Westminster, was on tuesday, by the Dean and Chapter chosen Rector of St. Margaret's Westminster, in the room of Dr. Gee, deceased. The Even. Post.

The St. James's and Lond. Even. Posts erroneously call him Dr. Baker.

The same day the Dutchess of Norfolk removed from his Grace the Duke's house in St. James's square, to a house hired for her in Poland-street. The Even. and Whitehall Even. Posts.

Arthur Stert, Esq; one of the Representatives in Parliament for Plymouth and John Goddard, Esq; a Representative for Tregony, two very eminent Merchants, and Mr. Keen, his Majesty's Minister at the Court of Spain, are appointed Commissaries on the part of Great Britain, for settling and adjusting the demands and pretensions of Great Britain and Spain on each other, agreeable to the Treaty of Seville. 4 Even. Posts.

Last thursday night Sir Thomas Aston, Bar. was voted duly elected Representative in Parliament for the Borough of Liverpool. S. James's, and Whitehall Ev. Posts.

A few nights ago, about 11 o' Clock, two Men took a Hackney Coach at the end of Piccadilly, and ordered the Coachman to drive to Hyde Park Corner; when they stopt, and got out of the Coach, and robbed him of 8 s. 6 d. and then tied him fast behind his Coach, and set the Horses a going, which were stopped opposite to the Duke of Devonshire's house. 4 Even. Posts.

Friday, March 27.

Yesterday the Honourable house of Commons adjourned till thursday next, and the House of Lords to tuesday se'nnight. Cour. Post Boy.

The same day, being Maunday thursday, his Grace the Lord Archbishop of York, his Majesty's Almoner, performed the annual ceremony of washing the feet of as many poor people of both sexes as his Majesty is years old, in the Royal Chappel at Whitehall. A considerable sum of money was distributed among the said poor, who had all tickets; after which, cloth being laid for dinner, they were seated at 2 tables, and their entertainment consisted of boiled Beef and roast Mutton, a dish for every four, which after Grace they divided. They had likewise strong Beer to drink. Cloth being drawn, a wooden platter with 4 large salt fish, 4 loaves, and 3 dozen of Herrings was given to each, which they carried home. Soon after they returned, and prayers being read to them in the Royal Chappel, each person was presented with 2 purses, the one with as many silver pence in it as his Majesty is years old, and the other with as many shillings as his Majesty has reigned years. To the men were given shoes, stockings, linnen cloth for 2 shirts, and woollen cloth for a coat; and to the women on equivalent in money. Daily Journ.

The Daily Post omits the circumstance of the Archbishop's washing the feet of the poor as both sexes, 47 of each; and gives us the following bill of fare, boil'd Beef, and shoulders of Mutton in plenty, and small bowls of ale, which is called dinner: after that, large wooden platters of fish and loaves, viz. undress'd, 1 large old Ling, and 1 large dried Cod, 12 red Herrings, and 12 white Herrings, and 4 half-quartern loaves, of which provision each person had 1 platter. He then goes on, and says, In the afternoon at 4. after the 2d lesson, Dr. Gilbert, the Archbishop's Sub-Almoner (who was gilded about with white cloth, and his scarf-place supplied with the same) distributed to the above objects shoes, and stockings, linnen and woollen cloth, and leathern bags of silver, with 1 penny, 2 penny, 3 penny, and 4 penny pieces of silver and shillings; after service was over, each object had about 1 gill of wine. The whole value to each is supposed to be worth about 4 l.

I am well assured that the Archbishop was not there; and that the Ceremony of washing the feet was omitted.

A new commission of the peace hath lately passed the great seal for the Isle of Ely. Daily Post.

The first general seal in Chancery before Easter Term will be held on tuesday April 7. the second saturday Ap. 11. Ibid.

Yesterday morning died at his lodgings in Somerset-house, Francis Hen. Lee, Esq; Master of the Revels, and Lieutenant Colonel to the Lord Cadogan's Regiment of foot. Ibid. Colonel Leith. D. Journal

Capt. Anthony Reynolds, Son to the Bishop of Lincoln, is reduced by order of his Majesty. Daily Post.

On wednesday night the fine Arabian horse, valued at 10 Guineas, which was raffled for at the Smyrna Coffee-house in Pall-mall, was won for Mr. Abbot, a Merchant of this City, by a waiter at the said Coffee-house, who in his absence threw for him 44 at three throws. D. Journ

Saturday, March 28.

Yesterday the Bishop of Litchfield and Coventry preached before their Majesties, and the rest of the Royal family, at St. James's; the Bishop of Rochester being indisposed. D. Post, the Even. St James's and Lon. Even.

Yesterday morning died at his house in Southampton-street, Covent garden, Wm. Thursby, Esq; of Abingdon, in Northamptonshire, leaving no issue. His estate, upwards of 3000 l. per Ann. devolves to Richard Thursby, Esq; of Hanslop, in the County of Bucks. D. Post, 4 Even. Posts. He has yet no issue, and in case he dies issueless, the estate goes to Mich. Harvey, Esq; Member at Parliament for Milburn Port in Somersetshire. Lond. Even. Post.

Last night Collonel Lascelles, who was appointed to inspect into the Harbour of Dunkirk, arrived here on some extraordinary affairs. Post Boy, S. James's Even.

On thursday last, the Rev. Dr. Crow was inducted into the living of St. Botolph's Bishopsgate; and the same day the Rev. Mr. Rayner was inducted into the living of St. Gregory's. Post Boy, St. James's Even.

Yesterday being Good Friday, the same was observed with peculiar solemnity at the Grecian Chappel in Exeter-court near the Strand. The whole Congregation had lighted Waxcandles in their hands; and the Priests richly dressed, at an Altar decently adorned with flowers, and other ornaments, celebrated the burial of our Saviour in effigy. The service began at five in the afternoon, and lasted for above 3 hours, the Priests all the while being employed in devoutly singing, perfuming the people with Frankincense, and other sacred offices. At the Conclusion each of the Congregation was presented with a Nosegay. Post Boy, St. James's Even.

The crucifying and burying of our Saviour in effigy, seems but an odd way of expressing devotion towards him.

At the Assizes at Taunton, 8 were ordered to be transported, and several to be whipt for petty Larcenies, 8 were convicted capitally, of whom 4 were reprieved, and 4 left for Execution. Post Boy, the Even. Post.

The Master of a Coffee-house in New Bond-street, reputed to be worth 2000 l. has been committed to Tothill fields Bridewell; there to be kept to hard labour for the space of month, pursuant to the statute for retailing Malt liquors without a licence, and contempt of the authority of the civil Magistrate. D. Post, S. James's, Whitehall, and Lond. Even. Posts.

The Earl of Weems hath paid Mr. Morrice, the high Bailiff of Westminster, the sum of 700 l. for the 24 horses which he seized at Colonel Chartres's stables, in St. George's near Hanover-square, as forfeited by his being a Felon. Daily Post, St James's, Whitehall Even. Posts.

Last thursday the Earl of Weems took lodgings at Mr. Russel's on Ludgate hill, for the conveniency of attending his father-in-law Col. Chartres, who, 'tis said, will speedily obtain his pardon. D. Journ. Whitehall, and Lond Even. Posts.

This day a great part of Col. Chartres's Goods seized by the high Bailiff of Westminster, was carried back to his house in Great George-street, near Hanover-square, the Earl of Weems having paid 1000 l. for them. The high Bailiff hath restored the Col. all his linnen. Lon. Ev. Post.

Last thursday one Joseph Dawson was committed to Newgate by Justice Patten, for privately stealing 12 Guineas from one person, and 8s. 6d. from another. St. James's Even.

Mr. Heydegger is preparing to go to Italy, to engage some new Italian singers to come over hither against the Winter. Daily Post, the Even. St. James, and London Even. Posts.

At the Assizes for the County of Somerset 8 Men received sentence of death. Whitehall Even. Post.

Last saturday 3 persons were executed at Salisbury. Lond. Even. Post.

On thursday morning one of the Hampstead Stage Coaches was robbed by 2 men, in the lane turning from Pancras into Tottenham-court road, who took from the Passengers about 5 l. 7 s. besides a scarlet cloak trimm'd with gold. St. James's, and Lond. Even. Posts.

On wednesday evening Mrs. Honey wood, a widow Lady, came from Richmond, with her Daughters, to her house in great Russel-street, Bloomsbury, and eat her supper very heartily, after which she was seized with fit of an apoplexy, and died about 1 o'clock next morning. The Even. St. James, and Whitehall Ev. Posts.

We hear that her Grace the Dutchess of Norfolk preparing to go to France. Lond. Even. Post.

The young Marquess of Annandale is going to the university of Cambridge. Ibid.

Yesterday the Exeter Carrier was robbed of 1100 l. the Money being (as tis said) one Mr. Fry's. Ibid.

Dover, March 24. This morning the Dover Sloop brought in almost 1000 lb. of Tea, which they took yesterday morning upon the coast of France, after having chased the Vessel, from whom they took the Goods from our shore. The Smugglers endeavoured to save the Cargo, and wounded one Man, by a cut over his eye; and another with a hatchet received a cut on 2 of his fingers, as he and the rest attempted to board. It is thought the Tea was to have been received by the May field Gang, which consists of a number of desperate men. 4 Even. Posts.

March 26. Yesterday the Tidesmen of this port 31 half Anchors of Brandy, ran ashore under the Castle. A Gentleman landed Last night from France, who is come to buy horses for the King his Master. Ibid

On wednesday the 18th at the Assizes at York 9 persons received sentence of death Applebee's Journ.

On monday morning at Guilford 8 persons received sentence of death. Ibid.

At Thetford 3 condemned for horse-stealing, 2 reprieved. Ibid.

At Aylesbury 5 condemned, 2 reprieved. Ibid.

At Bedford 3 condemned. Ibid.

At Worcester 3 condemned. Ibid.

Durham, March 12. This morning the great Bank adjoining to the Bishop's Castle, commonly called the broken walls, made a prodigious shoot of some 1000 of loads of earth into the middle of the river: and it is the opinion, that if immediate care be not taken, it may be of very bad consequence to the Palace as well as the River. Ibid.

Newcastle, March 14. On monday Last, in an out-of-the way den in Newborn parish, near 4 miles from hence, was discovered a very miserable object, who had hang'd himself, as 'tis believed, for want, being a travelling beggar. He had hung till the crows picked out his eyes, and mangled his body. Ibid.

Last saturday, a man who asked relief at a Gentleman's house on Broad-street hill, was pushed from the door by a footman; and falling into the street a Cart ran over his head, and killed him on the spot. Applebee, the Weekly Journal.

Last saturday evening about six, a young Gentlewomen, attended by one servant, coming towards London, was robbed of 5 Guineas and her gold Snuff-box, by a highwayman in Finchley-lane. He had on a blue Jockey Habit, trimm'd with gold. After exchanging some words with the footman, he gave him a crown, and rode off. Weekly Journal, London Journal.

Last week a Tripeman's servant was sent to Clare-market, on some particular business; but he attempting to knock down an Ox in a slaughter-house there and the rope breaking with which he was tied, the beast rushed upon him, and gored his body in such a dangerous manner, that he lies in a very dangerous condition. The Weekly Journal, Applebee's.

There hath lately been very industriously dispersed by the Post and other methods, a paper containing the joint and separate affidavits of Collcot and Jones, relating to the affair of Dunkirk. The fact chiefly intended to be proved by it, and positively sworn to in it is now allow'd, upon an unquestionable Authority, to be scandalously false. What inducements the Deponents could have to make these affidavits in such a manner, the world may guess. It is well known who the Person is, that was employed to procure them, and to carry the Persons, who swore to it, before a Magistrate; and from the station which that Person is in, every body may judge by whom he was employed.———In the mean time, we do not hear that the French King's complaisant orders for demolishing the late Reparation of that place, are yet put in execution. Craftsman.

We are informed, that an Address from the Grand Jury of the County of York, upon the Treaty of Seville, has been obtain'd, upon a division, with some difficulty; and, it is hoped, may be followed with some more of the same strain; particularly from the City of London; tho' it is now pretty late for acknowledgments of this kind, it being near 4 months since we have been acquainted with the conclusion of that Treaty, by which the Nation will gain so many considerable advantages. Ibid.

Monday, March 30.

Yesterday the Rev. Dr. Gilbert, Dean of Exeter, and Sub-Almoner, preached before their Majesties, in the room of his Grace the Lord Archbishop of York. After which their Majesties and the rest of the Royal Family received the Holy Communion. The Rev. Mr. Benson preached before his Highness the Duke of Cumberland, and the Princess Mary and Touts, in his Highness's apartment. Post Boy.

Yesterday morning the Lady of the Right Honourable the Earl of Huntingdon was safely brought to bed of a Son and Heir, at his Lordship's house in Charles street, St James's square, to the great joy of that noble Family. Post Boy, Daily Post.

Tuesday, March 31.

Sunday evening arrived in the Downs the South-Sea Company's Ship Prince Frederick; whose cargoe chiefly consists of 400,000 l. in money, 1050 Sersons of Cocheneal each 200 pound weight. Courant, Post-boy.

Yesterday the Lord Bishop of Landaffe [Dr. Harris] preach'd the Spittal Sermon at St. Brides before the Lord Mayor, &c. Daily Post.

The same day the Duke of Bedford, caused all the meat remaining unsold on saturday night last in Bloomsbury Market, to be taken at the market price, and distributed among the reduced House-keepers belonging to the parish of St. Giles's. D. Journal.

Last Week the Exeter Carrier, on his Way to London, was robbed between Exeter and Honiton, of 950 l. On saturday last the Person that was intrusted with the Care of the Carrier's Pack-horses, was taken into Custody, and being examined before Sir William Billers, was committed to Wood-street Compter. By several Circumstances upon his Examination, there was Ground to suspect that two Persons who had formerly been Servants to the said Carrier, were concern'd in the Robbery; whereupon proper Persons were immediately dispatched to Exeter to secure them. Lond. Even.

On sunday died at his Lodgings at Charing-cross Duncan Campbell, the famous dumb Fortune-teller. Ibid.

This is the second of the Writers to Mr. Curl's chaste press, who has died within a small compass of time. Mr. Goodburn made his exit lately at Tyburn; and Mr Campbell was decently interred, not far off, at Padington.

Wednesday, April 1.

Yesterday about 9, a fire broke out at a Distiller's the corner of Fetter-lane, which happened by the Head of a Still flying off, when the Spirits took fire, and in a short time consumed 5 houses. The front of two houses falling in, occasioned a great deal of damage to several Persons near, besides several lost in the flames. The rubbish fell on the following Persons, viz. John Weaver, taken out alive, but since dead; John Lost, missing with some others; George Webb, John Forner, and George Gee, taken from under the rubbish dead. A boy about 16, a stranger, taken out, with both his legs burnt off above his knees. Post Boy.

The houses of Mr. Kingham, Potter, Mr. Allin, Shoemaker at the Boot, and Mr. Sawkins at the Magpye and Horse-shoe are consumed: 9 have been already taken out of the rubbish, 3 dead, and the rest miserably bruised: among which Mr. Read, sen. Printer, (who keeping an engine in his house, went with it to be assisting to his distressed neighbours) had his leg broken, and was very much bruised otherwise. D. Journ.

Yesterday the Spittal Sermon was preached at St. Brides's Church before the Right Honourable the Lord Mayor by the Rev. Dr. Frankland, Dean of Ely; after which his Lordship returned with the two Sheriffs, and several of the Aldermen, to a splendid Entertainment Drapers Hall, provided by Mr. Alderman Barber. Post-Boy.

Yesterday Morning died Mr. Robert Briscoe, Steward of St. Bartholomew's Hospital. Daily Journal.

FOREIGN NEWS.

Thursday, March 16.

Rome, March 4. N.S. The Pope's Corpse having been carried in state from the Chappel of the sacrament into the choir, the Ceremony of the Funeral was begun, in the presence of the Cardinals St. Matheo, Petra, Quirini, Lescari, Fini, Gotti, Porcia, Borghese, Forteri, Falconieri, Banchieri, and Salviati, all Creatures of the Defunct: and Signor Sermonetti, Archbishop of Nicosia, consecrated the Cypress Coffin in which the corpse was laid. Signor Acquaviva, having kissed the hands and feet, covered the face with linnen, (no relation being there) and laid the 3 purses of medals at his feet, as usual. Cardinal Fini having begged the Miter, they put another upon the Pope's head; and the Priests belonging to that Cathedral dressed him in a large red Taffety Garment. Then the Coffin was inclosed in 2 others, and removed into the choir of Musick, over against the Vault of Pope Innocent VIII. of the family of Cibo. The inscription upon the leaden Coffin was this: Benedictus XIII. P.M. vixit annos LXXXI dies XIX. sedit in summo Pontificatu annos V. menses VIII. dies XXIII. obiit die XXI. Februarii MDCCXXX. Courant.

Rome, March 11. Never was seen so great an alteration during the vacancy of the See. All such as got into Offices by means of the late Pope's favourites, are either dismissed intirely, or suspended. They write from Benevento, that the inhabitants of that city would not admit one Beneventine of all that were in the service of the late Pope; but obliged them to go elsewhere. On sunday the Cardinals went to the Chappel of the Vatican, where Cardinal Barberini said the Mass of the Holy Ghost, for the election of a new Pope, before the Altar of la Pieta, and Signer Lanfredini made a learned discourse upon that subject. Afterwards the Hymn beginning with Veni Creator Spiritus was sung, which being ended, the Cardinals rose from their seats, and walked 2 and 2 to the Conclave. This day died Cardinal Beneditto Pamsilli, who was raised to the purple by Pope Innocent XI. the 1st of Aug. 1681. Courant.

Leghorn, March 5. We have certain advice, that the Malecontents of Corsica are got together in a body of 12,000 Men, who have pillaged in a deplorable manner the city of Bastia, and 2 Towns in that neighbourhood, from whence they carried off all that belonged to the Commissaries; and that upon intreaty of the Bishop of Aleria, they were retired from Bastia, on condition that in a month's time the Doge of Genoa should grant them a restitution of their arms, and a diminution of the duties and price of salt. St. James's Evening.

Hamburgh, March 28. It is written from Dresden, that the King of Poland, as Elector of Saxony, will not act offensively in the present situation of Affairs. The Evening and Whitehal Evening Posts.

Naples, March 11. An ordinance of the Court of Vienna arrived here last week, for the borrowing from Foreigners who possess Fiefs in this Kingdom, one year's Revenue intire of the said Fiefs; the 5th penny out of all the Mercedes granted by his Imperial and Catholick Majesty, and a mounted horse from all the Barons for each Fief they hold, each horse valued at 80 Ducats, which amounts to the sum of 300,000 Ducats. Whitehall Evening.

This afternoon arrived a Mail from France.

Paris, March 30. The Demolition of the new works at Dunkirk, were [was] last week begun, in the presence of the French and British Officers appointed for that purpose, by each Court. St. James's Even. Post.

Friday, March 27.

Paris, April 1. N.S. On the 28th Past the King gave audience to the Ambassadors and other foreign Ministers, and afterwards held a Council of Finances. Courant, P. Boy.

We are assured, the King's Declaration will be speedily published, enjoining all the Clergy, having Benefices, to accept the Constitution Unigenitus within a limited time, upon pain of being deprived of their Benefices. Post Boy, Daily Journal.

The Actions are about 960 livres. Courant, D. Post and Journal.

Rome, March 4. The Chevalier de S. George is now recovered of his late illness; but no less than 50 or 60 of his family are now lying sick in his Palace. D. Post.

Saturday, March 28.

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from Holland.

Moscow, March 9. N.S. Yesterday morning, Field-marshal Truberzoy, and Knees Alexis Czerkaski, a Senator, followed by 300 Gentlemen, went to the Palace, and desired that the Czarina would vouchsafe to hear what they had to offer. The Field-marshal then told her Majesty, "That after having maturely consider'd of it, they had come to a resolution, that the Monarchical Government was the only one that suited the Russian Empire, and therefore they intreated her Czarian Majesty to be pleas'd to accept of the Soveignty, with the same Authority as it was enjoy'd by her Ancestors." Whereupon the Czarina answered him, "That it was her intention to govern her subjects in peace and justice; but that as she had signed some articles, she would willingly know, whether the Privy Council would consent to her acceptance of what her people offer'd her." The Members of the Council having intimated their consent by bowing their heads, the Czarina accepted of the Sovereignty, and commanded the Chancellor to bring the articles she had signed; which being done, they were cancelled before them. Afterwards her Czarian Majesty made a most gracious speech, promising, among other things, "That she would be a true Mother of her Country, and do all the favours she could to her Subjects."

Her Czarian Majesty has signed and dispatched an order for the march of the 30,000 men promised the Emperor. She has appointed the same regiments that the late Czarina Katherine designed for the assistance of his Imperial Majesty; and they are to be commanded by General Leslie, a native of Ireland. Courant, Post Boy, Daily Journal.

Vienna, March 22. N.S. The second body of troops designed for Lombardy and Calabria, are actually on their march; and upon the 18th instant 8 more Battalions, 4 Companies of Grenadiers, and 14 Squadrons, will be ordered to march from Hungary. Ibid.

Moscow, March 9. Another express from Persia has brought a confirmation, that Prince Thamas, Son of the late Sophi, had taken the capital City of Ispahan, and that Sultan Efreff was retired to the Frontiers of Turkey. Post Boy.

Monday, March 30.

Hague, Ap. 4. N.S. There is an odd story from Poland, of a Jew in the neighbourhood of Warsaw; who admiring a Roman Catholick woman, would stick at nothing to carry his point. So he pretends to turn Christian, divorces his wife, abandons his children, and marries this woman. But see the uncertainty of man's life, and the follow of his purposes. Health, so necessary to his designs, abandons him, and he is confined to his sick bed. The Priest is sent for, and perceiving the danger, administers the extreme Unction according to the Rites of the Roman Church. This was no sooner done, but the pretended Convert began to curse and swear, and to blaspheme, after a most dreadful manner. Am I a Christian, said he? No: I no more believe in Jesus Christ than I did when I was a Jew. The Priest staid with him 2 days and 2 nights, sometimes exhorting, and sometimes threatning him; but could make no impression at all. He died cursing himself, having told those about him just before he expired, that no baptized Jew could do otherwise then he did; for that they went to the Christian worship with temporal views only, without any regard to the salvation of their souls. This being the case, his dead body was delivered to the common Hangman, who erected a pile of wood, laid it thereon, and consumed it to Ashes. Post Boy.

Tuesday, March 31.

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from Holland.

Ratisbon, March 30. The Imperial Decree relating to the Treaty of Seville, so far as it regards the Fiefs of the Empire in Italy, and which was communicated the 27th to the public Dictature, contains in Substance, "That his Imperial Majesty, in consequence of the preparations that are making elsewhere to act by way of force in Italy, has thought fit to send some troops thither, which he will reinforce according to the Exigency of Affairs; not with a view of acting offensively against any one, but solely to maintain the rights of the Empire: That if the tranquility should be disturbed in Italy, and his hereditary Dominions should be attacked, he hopes that in so just a Cause he shall be supported by the whole Empire in the most efficacious manner." Cour. Post Boy, D. Post.

Wednesday, April 1.

Rome, Mar. 18. Cardinal Pamfili was so ill on Saturday last, that it occasioned a current report, that he was dead: but tho' he is still alive, his life is despaired of. On tuesday it was reported, that the Cardinal Imperiali's party was much weakened, tho' he had still 24 votes. Daily Post and Journal

Milan, March 13. A few Days ago a great Council of War was held in the presence of Count Daun, Governour of this Dutchy, on Occasion of the Imperial Troops, which are expected in a little Time in the Montuan. These Troops said to be already advanc'd to the Frontiers of Italy, consist of 10,000 Men, Horse and Foot, all Veteran Soldiers, who 'tis assur'd will be follow'd by 20,000 more. Daily Journal.

The General Shipping LIST.

Ships arrived at and sail'd from Great Britain, from March 24, to March 31.

Ships Captains From For

Portmouth.

Sailed.

21 Lydia & Rach. Laming Morlaix

Katherine Sloop Drake Guernsey

Rose Weller West Indies

23 Winchelsea Waterhouse Plymouth

Sapphire David ditto

Arrived.

24 Oxford Lord Vere

Beauclerc

Soebay Warren

Anne Wigg Cette Rotterdam

26 Ar. Warminst. Bake Malaga

Sail'd Ch. Nancy Jones Hamburgh Cadiz

Fountain Norman Lisbon Hamburgh

27 Union Callas Leghorn Amsterdam

29 Art. Friendship Barker Amsterdam Oporto

Patio Brig Grosvenor Lisbon

John & Eliz. Thompson Newcastle

Deal, March 25.

Cayon Howes S. Christoph.

Rose Bennet Oporto

Dove Vistry ditto

26 Duke Jones Maryland

Boston Merch. Hamerden Boston

Will & James King Barbadoes

Oldfield Beal Jamaica

Mary Harrison Alicant

Isabella Nowell Oporto

27 All sail'd

Sail'd Flying Horse Lone Guiney

Brigantine Ashley Amsterdam

Arriv. Woolball Harrington Figuira

Elizabeth Bruce Lisbon Hamburgh

28 Elizabeth Bruce Hamburgh

Pretty Bessy Jones Naples Amsterdam

Gravesend, March 25.

George & Mary Henning Oporto

Rose Bennet ditto

Endeavour Tousell Bilboa

Justice Holles Amsterdam

Success Morfield Dort

Katherine Taylor Calais

Mary Canwell Rotterdam

Townsend Kilham ditto

26 Dove Vittry Oporto

Will. & Mary Crossthwait Ostend

Elizabeth Pahl Hamburgh

Pr. Frederick Rodham Mocha

Cayon Howes S. Christoph.

Malmsbury Parrimore Maderas

Katherine Ferguson Roan

27 Elizabeth Nagle Oporto

Edw. & Mary Harper Rotterdam

Blanch Colberg

Lady Elizabeth Bredamos

Betty & Timo. Williamson Amsterdam

Jonas & Mary Sutton ditto

Leuder Ostres ditto

Nightingale Davy ditto

Garratuo Peters ditto

28 Judith & Anne Barfoot Rotterdam

Del Carmen Del Butto S. Sebastian

30 Arr. San. Maria Watson Malaga

John & Mary Thompson Rotterdam

Falmouth, March 23.

Cornwall Skinner London Genoa

Bedwell Wade ditto Venice

Greenstead Rice

Dartmouth, March 24.

Came Back

23 Elizabeth Cooper Newfoundla.

Arriv. Hap. Ret. Matthews Holland

Sail'd Y. Johan. Amsterdam Bourdeaux.

James Batsford Sherant Dunkirk

Plymouth, March 24.

Arriv. Don Carlos Thomas Oporto Newfoundla.

Anne Mackrel Maryland

Supply Randal ditto

Content Hume Lisbon

Fancy Gyles N. England

Eagle Dornford

Edward Bucket Newcastle Lisbon

Anne Foliet Topsham Newfoundla.

Dragon Baron Ostend Barcelona

Providence Bonnel Portsmouth Lisbon

Albany Bryan New York London

James & John Moore Rye Oporto

Speedwell Sullivan Dunkirk Bilboa

Boston Roby Boston Amsterdam

Weymouth, March 25.

Sail'd Pr. Amelia Brett Lisbon Baltick

Arriv. Limerick Bydder Hav. de Grace Bilbao

Pelapsico Mer. Lucks Maryland

Griggs Over London Bristol

Beaumont Macklish London Bristol

Dover, March 26.

Eliz. & Sarah Garret Ipswich Oporto

Unicorn Warham Woodbridge Leverpool

Tho. & Mary Gould London Southampt.

Sail'd L. Carmier Quin S. Sebastian London

The Course of the Exchange.

Amsterdam 34 4 a 5

Ditto at Sight 34 1

Rotterdam 34 5

Antwerp 35

Hamburgh 33 1

Paris at Sight 32 1 half

Bourdeaux at sight 32 1 4th

Cadiz 42 5 8ths a 1 half

Madrid 43 a 2 7 8ths

Bilboa 43 3 4ths

Leghorn 51 5 8ths

Genoa 54 3 4ths

Venice 49

Lisbon 5 s. 6 d. 1/2

Porto 5 s. 5 d. 1/4

Dublin 12 1 4th

Prices of Goods at Bear Key on Tuesday.

per Quarter

Wheat 36 to 38

Rye 22 to 24

Barley 20 to 24

Oats 13 to 16 6

Horse Beans 26 to 28

Hog Peas 23 to 26 6

Boiling Peas 23 to 31

Pale Malt 28 to 31

Brown Malt 26 to 28

Tares 16 to 20

Coals 23 s. to 26 s. per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 26 s. to 36 s. per Hundred.

Hops 1729 39 s. to 58 s. per Hundred.

Rape Seed 15 l. to 16 l. 10 s. per Last.

On Tuesday Stocks were

South-Sea 102 7 8ths. Annuities 107. Bank 145. Bank Circulation 6 l. 10 s. Premium. India 186. Three per Cent. Annuity 95. African 43. Royal Exchange Assurance 90. London Assurance 12. York Buildings 16 1 4th. English Copper 3 l. 13 s. Welch ditto 1 l. 13 s. South Sea Bonds 4 l. 1 s. Premium. India Bonds 5 l. 1 s. ditto.

* * *

ADVERTISEMENTS.

This Day is published,

Printed on a superfine Paper, in two Volumes in Quarto,

SOME Observations made in travelling through France, Italy, &c. in the Years 1720, 1721 and 1722: Containing a large and particular Account of the most remarkable Curiosities in those Counties, as well such as relate their Manners, Customs, religious Orders. Ceremonies, &c. as likewise their Architecture, Paintings, Sculpture, and other Antiquities, which are esteemed most worthy of the Observation of an English Traveller. With some short Remarks on the Air, Soil, Productions, Trade, Manufactures of several Places, occasionally interspersed. By Edward Wright, Esq; illustrated with 40 curious Drawings, design'd upon the Spot by the Author, and engrav'd on Copper by the best Hands.

Printed for Messieurs Ward and Wicksteed in the Inner Temple Lane.

* * *

In a few Days will be published,

THE Merchant. A Naval Lyrick, on Trade, Navigation, and Peace. In which are the Characters of Pindar, Sir Isaac Newton, the Czar, Solomon, Columbus, the Emperor, K. George, Britain, Venice, Holland, America, Africa, China, and of the famous old Tyre, in some Points too applicable at present.———Designed to give a new, but just Idea of the Pindaric Ode, and to shew the Scripture-style of the Prophets highly proper for it.

Printed for Lawton Gilliver at Homer's Head against St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet Street.

Where may be had,

Two Epistles to Mr. Pope, concerning the Authors of the Age, by the Author of the universal Passion. Also

A new Edition of the Art of Politicks.

* * *

WHEREAS it has been said, that all the Writings and Settlements made by Robert EARL Ferrers, on his first Wife, Mrs Elizabeth Washington, were lost or destroy'd; this is to give Notice to all Persons concern'd, that they may see them at Mr. Thomas Bennett's Master in Chancery, and the Marriage Articles on Mr. Robert Shirley his Son, with Mrs. Ann Ferrers, dated the 26th of September, 1683, and the Settlement of the Staffordshire Estate, dated the same day and year.

* * *

This Day is published,

THE Nurse's Guide; or, a right Method of bringing up young Children. To which is added; An Essay on preserving Health and Long Life with a Treatise on the Gout.

By an eminent Physician.

Printed for Join Brotherton at the Bible in Cornhill, and Lawton Gilliver at Homer's Head in Fleet-street.

Where may be had,

A General System of Hydrostaticks and Hydraulicks, philosophical and practice. An Enquiry into the Original and Rise of Springs: Draughts and Descriptions of the best Engines for distributing Water for the supply of Country Seats, Cities, &c. illustrated and explained by 60 copper Cuts. Done by the best hands. In 2 Vols. in 4to. By Mr. Switzer.

* * *

This Day are Publish'd,

Printed together in 8vo exactly from the Dublin Copies. Price 6 d.

1.A LIBEL on Dr. DELANY and a certain great Lord, by Dr. Sw———t, occasioned by an Epistle to ———. 2. An Epistle to his Excellency the Lord Caterer, by Dr. D———y. 3. An Epistle on an Epistle, or a Christmas Box for Dr. D———y. 4. Dr. Swift's Proposal for preventing the Children of poor People from being a Burden to their Parents or Country, and for making them beneficial to their Country.

N.B. There is a spurious Edition of this Collection, Printed for A. Moore, first published under the Title of A Satire, &c. and since twice altered, in Imitation of the above, and tho' pretended to be a second Edition, contains the Errors of the first, and is still incorrect. The Key of this Libel will be added to the next Piece of this Author which shall come over, and will be published by Capt. Gulliver.

Printed For Captain Gulliver near the Temple, and sold at the Pamphlet Shops.

Where may be had, the third Edition, of

Cadenus and Vanessa, or the Judgment of Venus. A Poem. By Dr. Swift. Price 4 d.

* * *

This Day is Publish'd,

THE LIFE of the Right Rev. Dr. White Kennett, late Lord Bishop or Peterborough, with several original Letters of the late Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr. Tennison, the late Earl of Sunderland; Bishop Kennett, &. and some curious original Papers and Records, never before published. And also

The Foreigner's Guide: Or, a necessary and instructive Companion, both for the Foreigner and Native, in their Tour through the Cities of London and Westminster. Giving,

1st. A general Description of these two Cities, with an Account of their respective Government.

2dly. A Description of the Royal Palaces, Noblemens Houses, publick Buildings, Churches, streets, Squares, and the most remarkable Places in and near the famous Metropolis: With an Account of the Inns of Court, Royal Society, publick Walks, Diversions, remarkable Days, Court Days, Post Days. And,

3dly. A Description of the several villages in the Neighbourhood; as Chelsea, Kensington, Richmond, Greenwich, Woolwich, Hampstead; and also others more remote, viz. Hampton-Court, Windsor, Oxford, Cambridge, Blenheim, New-Market Horse Races, Epsom, Tunbridge, Bath. And,

4thly. An Account of the Rates of Coaches, Watermen; and also the Rates of Post Horses; with the Roads to Dover and Harwich.

Very useful and entertaining both to Foreigner and Native, and done into English and French.

Where may be had,

LOVE LETTERS on all Occasions, lately passed between Persons of Distinction. Called by Mrs. Eliza, Haywood.

Plea'ure with Sorrow, Peace with War allay'd,

Liberty fetter'd, Hope by Fear dismay'd;

Imbitter'd Honey, Earnest mix'd with Play,

Are, Love! the Emblems of thy sov'reign Sway.

Printed for, and sold by Francis Cogan, at the Middle Temple Gate in Fleet-street.

* * *

LONDON: Printed and Sold by J. Roberts in Warwick-Lane, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in; and at the Pamphlet-Shops of London and Westminster, and also at the Pegasus (vulgarly called the Flying-Horse) in Grub-street. [Price Two Pence.]

