The Grub-street Journal — March 12th, 1730

Exported from Wikisource on May 12, 2026

Numb. X.

The Grub-street Journal.

* * *

Thursday, MARCH 12. 1730.

* * *

——— Little Villains must submit to Fate,

That Great Ones may enjoy the world in state. Garth's Dispensary, Cant. I.

THAT Persons of considerable fortune, or quality, tho' liable to the same capital penalties with those in a lower station, yet should not have those penalties inflicted on them, has been thought reasonable in all nations: as is evident from their practice, the best interpreter of public, as well as of private, opinions. And tho' this is looked upon by their Inferiors as too great a privilege: yet, unless the Laws were to be righteously executed upon all, without respect of Persons, I cannot think but it would be much better on all accounts, that the Rich and Great should be exempted, not only from punishment, for some certain crimes, but even from prosecution.

For, besides that such prosecutions are generally ineffectual to the purpose for which they are carried on, which is the bringing a great Criminal to Justice, it being more difficult to get a rich man hanged, than to save a poor fellow from the gallows; these prosecutions are the causes or occasions of many and great inconveniences and evils.

They occasion the squandering away abundance of money among the inferior Officers (more properly called the Knaves) of Justice, such as Jailers, Turnkeys, &c. who not only extort exorbitant sums from their illustrious prisoners, for the privileges of the goal, and other accounts; but likewise sometimes expose them to contempt, by shewing them at a certain price, like wild beasts and monsters, to the populace. Thus Villains are inriched by the wealth of Gentlemen in confinement; which they would otherwise have spent in a generous manner, to the advantage of honest and industrious people; and the Gentlemen themselves are rendered ridiculous to the rabble.

The prosecutions of rich or great men are frequently the occasion of much bribery, forgery, and perjury. For if they are really guilty of the crime of which they are accused, they will certainly employ their money in such a manner, as may be most likely to secure them from punishment; and it is ten to one, that it will be successful. And even if they are innocent, they may think it proper to make use of the same method. For it sometimes happens, that profligate Persons (especially in cases where a single oath is of any validity) in order to extort money from those who have a great quantity, will charge them with some capital crime: which, upon being disappointed in their expectations, they will not scruple, out of revenge, to swear against them in a Court of Judicature. In this case the person accused may think it necessary to hire some Irish Evidences on his side, to invalidate the falshood of one testimony, by the falshood of another. Sometimes to make the counter proof more strong, it may seem necessary to counterfeit Letters, &c. under the hand of the Accuser. And if this is not likely to be sufficient, as in some cases it is not, a majority of the Jury must be bribed even to do Justice.

Another ill consequence occasioned by such Prosecutions is, that they fix a lasting mark of infamy upon Gentlemen, in the opinion of the undiscerning Vulgar: who make little distinction betwixt Persons accused and convicted; and none at all betwixt the poor and the wealthy Convicts, unless to the disadvantage of the latter. For whenever a great man has been publicly accused of any action which is accounted a great crime, unless his innocence appears very plainly (which in the general and wistful blindness of the world seldom happens) the imputation upon his honour, like that upon a Lady's, is never forgotten, but always remembered to his disgrace. This has a very ill effect upon the minds of the common People; and lessens very much that deference and respect which is due from Inferiors to Superiors.

All these mischievous consequences attend the bare prosecution of Great men, even, if through either their innocence, or prudent management, they escape conviction. But if through the malice or obstinacy of a Jury, they are brought in guilty; the ill consequences are much more numerous, and more grievous.

A degradation from their high station immediately follows: and a man of honour is delivered into the hands of a common Jailer, to be loaded with irons at his discretion; and is soon after brought to the Bar, and placed among common Felons, with his thumbs tied in a most scandalous manner, to receive the sentence of condemnation. This is a mark of infamy upon an honourable Criminal, as indelible, as if he were stigmatized, and exposes him, not only for the present, but even as long as he lives, to the contempt and obloquy of the Populace.

To condemnation succeeds an application for a pardon; which can seldom be obtained, without false representations of the character of the person convicted, and of the circumstances of his conviction. For the supreme Magistrate, who has the sole power of pardoning, supposes all Persons guilty, who have been convicted according to law: and tho', out of his gracious disposition, he may be willing to give frequent instances of his mercy; yet he cannot be supposed willing to extend it to any, but to proper objects. Who are such, in the vast number of his Subjects, he can seldom know any otherwise, than by the representations of others; upon whose veracity and honour he must depend. But since it seldom happens, that any Great man is capitally convicted, who has not before been guilty of the like, or of some other crime of equal magnitude; how can such a person be represented to a Prince, as a proper object of his mercy, but by a complication of falsities? These cannot possibly be supposed to proceed originally from Persons of honour about the Court; and therefore they themselves must be first imposed on by the information they receive from others, who have been induced to give such favourable and false accounts by the prevalence of money. This opens a large scene of bribery and corruption, to the inrichment of vile and profligate Persons; who instead of being in any capacity of being instrumental in procuring mercy for others, ought to be made severe examples of Justice themselves.

But by whatever means, and upon whatever considerations, tho' never so justifiable and reasonable, a wealthy, but notorious Criminal is pardoned; the common People, who know nothing of the true motives and induce merits to the exercice of mercy, and if they did, are not, perhaps, proper judges of them, generally exclaim against it. They think it great partiality, that quality or riches (for they see no other difference) should secure a man from the punishment of a crime, which would expose one of themselves to certain death. Hence they infer, that, when the Law is rigorously executed upon a man in mean circumstances, he is not hanged for having broken the laws, and done any thing that is really criminal and wicked, but for being poor. Affluent fortune they are so far from thinking a circumstance which can any way render a Criminal a more proper object of mercy; that they look upon it as an aggravation of his guilt, since his example has a more extensive and fatal influence, the contagion of which they think ought consequently to be prevented by the severest punishment.

And therefore their clamours will run much higher, if ever it should happen, that such a person should obtain a pardon for a crime of which he has been capitally convicted, after having committed the like several times, and by means of his wealth saved himself from former convictions: one who, perhaps, from the meanest circumstances shall have raised him self to immense wealth by the vilest and basest methods: who by his slight of hand shall have conveyed to himself the estates, and by his debaucheries corrupted the morals of great numbers of Gentlemen: in short, one whose whole life shall have not only been one continued scene of intemperance, profaneness, lewdness, and villany, but who shall have continually boasted and gloried in the most flagrant instances of his wickedness. If ever such a case as this should happen, the People, who will look upon such a wretch as a common nuisance, will be apt to censure the compassion shewed towards him, as cruelty to the Public.

And yet, even in a case like this, there may be such wise, and just, and good reasons for the exercice of mercy, as the Vulgar are not able to comprehend; and therefore will certainly repine, and murmur, at such a signal instance of Clemency. That there may be such reasons will appear from this one Observation, That Great men, who have often the greatest personal failings, may be of such consequence, either in a civil, or military capacity, that the taking them off for any of them, may be an unspeakable detriment to a nation. It may deprive it of Persons of the most consummate abilities to administer Justice, and to manage the whole Scheme of affairs at home, or to lead Armies, and negotiate Treaties abroad.

After employing my thoughts, among other Statemenders, to find out a remedy for the great inconveniencies above-mentioned, I cannot think of any more proper, than humbly to propose, That a Law may be made exempting all Persons of such a particular dignity or fortune from all prosecutions for Murder, Sodomy, and Rape, committed upon those who have not an estate of such a particular value. I fix upon these three sorts of Crimes, because it is in respect of these chiefly, that Persons of fortune are exposed to most danger from those who have little or none, on account of the admission of one direct single witness in these cases, together with concurrent circumstances. This matter may be regulated after the manner of the Game-Act; and secure the property of such crimes which are committed for diversion to Gentlemen, who are duly qualified. This privilege would be a good mark of distinction; and more effectually preserve a due subordination betwixt the superior and inferior ranks of men. And tho' the latter might, perhaps, at first raise a clamour against such a law; yet when they came to consider the matter calmly, they would be perfectly easy, being convinced of the advantages arising from it even to themselves. For it would oblige them to sit down quietly under the first injury; and thereby secure them from the trouble and charge of vain prosecutions, to which they now so frequently expose themselves.

These sentiments are confirmed by those of the ingenious Dr. Croxall, who in Fab. xcvii. has these words. One who is already great and opulent, is by these very means privileg'd to commit almost any enormities. But it is necessary, that a Shew and Form of Justice should be kept up [among inferior Persons]: otherwise, were People to be ever so great, and so successful Rogues, they would not be able to keep possession of, and enjoy their plunder.

Bavius.

* * *

Verses occasioned by a late famous Sermon, on Jan. 30.

 Where Peters, Calamy, and Manton stood,

Calling in Scripture phrase for Strafford's blood:

Where To your Tents, O Israel, was cry'd;

And Proverbs oft, and Prophecies apply d:

Where Curse ye Meroz, twang'd through nose aloud,

With rage inflam'd the long-ear'd, rebel Crowd:

There late a gay Divine, in sacred tone

The Court arraigning, all those types out-shone.

Thus some high Tory Poetaster cries.

 To whom a Whiggish Rhymer thus replies.

No types of him, the Zanies of that age,

Who fir'd their audience with fanatic rage.

False were their notions of the public Weal;

Too warm and furious, but sincere their zeal.

No private grandeurs charms allur'd their eyes;

Their sole ambition with the Kirk to rise.

With fibre cloak, and broad-brim'd hat adorn'd,

They laugh'd at Lawn-sleeves, and a Mitre scorn'd.

Not so the Doctor, who had waited long,

And lowly bow'd amidst the Courtly throng:

But disappointed, found affairs of State

Ill-manag'd all; but found it out too late.

As bound in conscience this bold truth to spread,

He calls for vengeance on the Primiers head.

But why should Drum ecclesiastic sound

To arms at home, when Peace abroad is found?

What can this noise 'gainst wicked Courtiers mean?———

The learned Doctor is not made a Dean.

Poppy.

* * *

LONDON.

Thursday, March 5.

On tuesday the house of Commons waited on his Majesty at St. James's with their Address; to which his Majesty was pleased to return the following most gracious answer:

Gentlemen,

"I Thank you for this Address, which is very pleasing and acceptable to me, and I make no doubt but the most Christian King will, pursuant to the mutual Fidelity which subsists between the two Crowns, cause the orders to be effectually executed, which he has given, at my instances, for demolishing the works that have been made by the inhabitants of Dunkirk, contrary to the Treaties of Utrecht and the Hague." Courant.

Last week when Mr. Bolt, who died suddenly on Ludgate hill, was first thought to be dead, a Surgeon opened a Vein, and no Blood issuing, the Orifice was left open. The next day he was found really dead, but with his legs drawn up, and a cold sweat on his face, with a large quantity of blood in the Coffin. Ibid.

We are credibly informed, that the following regulation will be made of the East-India Company, and that it will be proposed in their general Court for the approbation of the proprietors. The Interest payable for six years to the Company by the publick, on the sum of 3,200,000 l. will be reduced by parliament from 5 1. to 4 per Cent and their present Fund of 160,000 1. be thereby reduced to 128,000 l. which is a yearly saving of 32,000 l. and in six years time is 192,000 l. The Company is further to raise 200,000 l. for the service of the current year absolutely, and without Interest or Repayment. In consideration of all which, there will be secured to the Company by Parliament, an exclusive trade for the term of thirty years, in lieu of their disputed right to a perpetual exclusive trade. And the Company will be entitled to trade in a corporate capacity for ever, tho' not exclusively beyond the said term of thirty years, which term is to commence in 1736, when their Fund is by law redeemable. Post Boy.

Money is ordered for paying three months course for the navy. Ibid.

Money is ordered for paying six months half pay to Sea officers. Ibid.

Money is ordered for paying sick quarters for the year 1729. Ibid.

On monday last a servant belonging to the Earl of Hallifax, and who hath a place in the Exchequer, being at a bonfire in the palace-yard, Westminster, made in honour of her Majesty's birth-day, discharged a Blunderbuss, which unluckily happened to be loaded with duck shot, three persons standing round the fire were dangerously wounded by this accident, viz. a Watermen, another man, and an apprentice; 'tis thought the former cannot recover. Daily Post.

The great mischiefs daily done by Blunderbusses will be taken into the consideration of our Society.

On tuesday morning the half pay due to Sea-Surgeons on that establishment, was paid at the Treasury-office in Broad street, from the 1st of January 1728, to the 30th of last June. Also the same morning, the two months pay in six, due to the Company of his Majesty's Ship the Sapphire, ending the 20th of June 1729, was paid at the pay-office in Broad-street. Even. Post.

The beginning of next week will be paid at his Majesty's yard at Deptford, half a year's pay due to the Artificers, Labourers, and Ordinary of that yard. Ibid.

The same day the Court of Directors of the South Sea Company took up the following Ships for their service, viz.

The City of London, Capt. Kettle.

The Bonetta, Capt. West.

The Laurence, Capt. Demerque; and

The Upton, Capt. Upton, for Angola on the coast of Guinea. Ibid.

On tuesday a Court of Lord Mayor and Aldermen was held at Guildhall, when several Regulations were made in the Waterman's Company, &c. Ibid.

On tuesday was held a general Court of the East-India Company, when the Court was acquainted with the present situation of their affairs, and were informed that the Parliament would probably take off the duty on Salt, which at present stands appropriated for payment of them and the South Sea Company, and in lieu thereof assign some other security, to which their consent would be necessary. On which they resolved to impower the Court of Directors to make such agreements as they should judge proper. At the same time the sum of 2000 l. bequeathed to the Company by Edward Owen. Esq; late one of their Directors, was ordered to be employed for the use and support of their Hospital at Poplar. Ev. Post and St. James's Evening.

On monday morning died at Windsor, the Rev. Dr. Richard Sleech, one of the Canons of that Collegiate Church, Fellow of Eaten College, Also Rector of Farnham and Hitcham in Bucks. Even. Post.

Friday, March 6.

The Packthread Spinner's Son in the Mint, who we mentioned some time ago to have his Skull broken by his Father's throwing a hammer at him, died yesterday Morning; since which the father is more closely confined in the new Goal, Southwark, in order to take his tryal for the same at the next assizes at Guildford. Cour.

The persons who were unfortunately wounded by the discharge of a Blunderbuss in the new palace-yard, Westminster, on Monday Night Last, are in a fair way of recovery. Ibid.

We hear that Bayes's Opera, which has been deferred some time, (by reason of an Indisposition of a principal performer in that entertainment) is to take the Stage soon after the run of Sophonisba, a Tragedy now acting at the Theatre Royal in Drury-lane; which Tragedy is allowed, by the best judges, in it's poetry, to be hardly inferior to any Piece the Stage has produced for many years. The Habits and Decorations are very magnificent: and Mrs. Oldfield's performance surprising. Daily Post.

I would rather have expressed it in the words of our learned Mr. Cibber, Mrs. Oldfield has outdone her usual outdoings.

Saturday, March 7.

Whitehall, March 6. Letters from Paris of the 11th Instant, N.S. give an account that Captain Blandiniere, of the Marine, being appointed by the French King to put in execution his most Christian Majesty's order of the 27th of Last month, N.S. for the demolishing any works that may have been erected at Dunkirk, contrary to Treaty, set out for that place the week before. His Majesty has been pleased to appoint Colonel Lascelles to be his Commissary for inspecting the said demolition and he is ordered to repair thither with all expedition. Gazette.

The Pope's death, prognosticated by signs in the sky five or six nights before, and the general complaints of Colds and Fevers, which in some parts of Italy prove very mortal, have spoiled the diversions of the Carnival this season and the appearance of a new war, by the Emperor's marching troops one way, and the King of Spain's preparing to throw them in another, have set the Italians aghast. Applebee.

Yesterday in the evening the Corps of the late Rev Dr. Gee, Dean of Lincoln, and one of the Prebendaries of Westminster, was interred in Westminster-Abbey; the Pall was supported by six Prebends, and the Bishop of Gloucester performed the service. The Procession was as follows: six of the King's alms-men, in their Gowns and Badges; the singing Boys of the Abbey and the Choiresters; the Virgers in their Gowns and Staves; the Bishop of Gloucester; the Corps; the Bishop of St. Asaph chief mourner; about 10 couple of Clergymen ; his houshold servants in mourning, and the two Churchwardens of St. Margaret's Westminster. Courant.

This day Sir Charles Hotham sets out for the Court of Berlin, to negotiate a treaty of marriage between his Royal Highness the Prince of Wales and the Princess Royal of Prussia, as also between the Prince Royal of Prussia and the Princess Royal of England. Ibid.

We hear that this day Col. Armstrong sets out for Paris: and that Col. Astis, who formerly resided at Dunkirk, to observe, on the behalf of this Crown, that the aforesaid place was not repaired, according to the tenor of the treaty of Utrecht, will accompany Col. Armstrong to Dover, and from thence will embark for Dunkirk, to reside there as formerly. Ibid.

On thursday morning about two o' Clock a running Footman set out for Paris with a particular message to the Right Hon. the Lord Harrington. Ibid.

Yesterday in the afternoon, one of the chimneys belonging to the lodgings of Mr. Delasay, one of the Under-secretaries of State at the Cockpit, Whitehall, took fire: which put the persons belonging to the several offices adjoining into very great surprise, but by timely assistance was happily extinguished. Ibid.

Yesterday Abraham de Costa, a Dutch Jew, was committed to Newgate by Sir Richard Hopkins for robbing his master Mr. Mendez de Costa in Winchester-street, of Jewels and Plate, to the value of 300 l. Ibid. and Evening Post.

Various are the Relations which our Authors afford us of this Article. The Post Boy and St. James's Evening call him the Jew Servant, who robb'd his master, Mr. John Mendez da Costa. The Daily Post and London Evening call him the Jew Servant, who robb'd his master, Mr. Mendes, of a considerable quantity of Jewels, &c. The Daily Journal and Whitehall Evening call him Abraham Jones, a Dutch Jew, Servant to Mr. de Costa in Winchester-street. The Post Boy and St. James's Evening tell us he was brought to town [from Canterbury] in a Coach and six. The Daily Post and London Evening say under a strong guard. All agree that he was sent to Newgate, except the Post Boy, who is so tender as to send him only to the Compter. The Daily Journal says he robbed his master of Jewels and Money of above 2000 l. value. The Whitehall Evening reads Jewels and Plate to the value of 30 l.

Cambridge, March 5. It hath been confidently reported here, long before, and constantly since, the Demise of the Dean of Lincoln, that one of our famous Professors desires that preferment, in exchange for what he hath now. And it seems the more probable, because the great Man hath absented himself not only from his College, but the Chair also, for eight or nine months past, to the great damage of himself and family in the way of house-keeping; which, it is thought, he would not have been guilty of but in view of some greater advantage. And this conceit, however slenderly (and 'tis very slenderly) founded, hath taken so much with the Gentlemen of Trinity, that they talk of bespeaking several pipes of Wine for regaling the populace at their Conduit, and bestowing all that hath been saved the two last Winters, by a frugal management of Candles in their Chappel, and in the illumination of their observatory. Nay, some have extravagantly reported, that Mr. Whiston is actually desired to prepare and send down some of his fire-balls of the most approved Composition, which are to be discharged from a Bomb on our Castle Hill, to give not only our sister University, but all the friends and members of this numerous College, the most immediate notice the very night after the admission of a new master. But we do not hear that the like preparations are thought of at Lincoln. St. James's Evening.

Monday, March, 9.

On friday Last the Directors of the Royal African Company waited on the honourable the House of Commons, with a petition setting forth the great charge and expence the Company had been at in creating several Forts and Castles in Africa, for the protection and security of their Commerce: and whereas the African trade now lies open to several private Merchants, who send Ships there every year, and no ways contribute to the great charge the Company is at in maintaining their Forts and Garrisons, they humbly pray, that the house will please to relieve them in such a manner as they should think fit. Post Boy.

Cambridge, March 2. I find upon my return to this place, that we have been strangely imposed upon, by the report lately spread about London and elsewhere, with no less assurance than industry, that the business of T———y C———ge is all over, the cause dropt, and the Gentlemen concerned in it so far dispirited and discouraged by some unexpected disappointments, that they have laid aside all thoughts of meddling any more in that matter. Whereas, on the contrary, I have it from one of the principal of them, that those Gentlemen are so far animated by those disappointments, that they resolve to prosecute that cause, cost what it will, with greater Vigour than ever, as not doubting but that (if Justice is any where to be had) they shall at last bring it to a good issue: since nothing, as they conceive, can retrieve their C———ge from the state it is now in, and hath been for these many years, but the establishment of a VISITOR. For my part (as I look upon this cause of theirs to be a national concern, if the nation be concerned that Colleges should be duly regulated and kept under discipline) I cannot but applaud their generous Resolution, and join with all good men in wishing them success. D. Post.

Tuesday, March 10.

Yesterday morning the Corps of the Dutchess Dowager of Bolton was carried out of town from her late dwelling house in Dover-street, to be interred at the burial place of that noble family near Basingstoke in Hampsshire. Courant.

They write from Winchester, that at the Azes held there on friday last, came on the tryal of Mr. William Lytton (late Surgeon's mate of the Greyhound man of war, Sir Yelverton Payton, Commander, for the killing Mr. Reynolds belonging to the said Ship, in a duel at Portsmouth. The Evidence were unanimous, that the deceased compelled Mr. Lytton to fight; and that he endeavoured to avoid it as much as possible, till his life was in imminent danger. Several Officers and Gentlemen from Portsmouth appeared, and gave Mr. Lytton the Character of a good-natured, peaceable man; whereupon the Jury brought him in guilty of Manslaughter. Post Boy.

His Majesty was graciously pleased in Council, on the 20th of last month, to break the old seals for the principality of Wales; and at the same time to issue out new seals for the said principality, under the Prince of Wales. Ibid.

Col. Chartres is visited in Newgate by Dr. Pringle, being greatly indisposed. Daily Post.

Early yesterday morning, a Footman belonging to Counselor Brown of Lincoln's-Inn, found in the Boghouse in the said Inn of Court several Bank bills, for between 2 and 3000 l. supposed to have been lately taken out of the Bristol Mail. Ibid.

On friday night last one Wood, a youth of about 12 years of age, nephew to Mr. Wood, who keeps a livery Stable in Castle-street, near Long-acre, being at Mr. Bettesson's, a saddler in Long-acre, and happening to take up a Pistol, which was charged, let fly at a Relation who was with him; the Bullet went through his arm, broke his rib, and penetrated his body; the person is not yet dead, but in a dangerous condition. Ibid.

On wednesday night last, about 9 o'clock, a Gentleman passing thro' St. James's Park, from the Stable-yard toward Buckingham-house, was attacked by two Rogues, the first of them struck him on the arm, whereupon he got his back against one of the Trees, drew his Sword, and wounded one of them; upon which they both made off thro' the Green Park. D. Journal.

Canterbury, March 7. We hear that upon the death of Dr. Gee, late Dean of Lincoln, and Rector of Chevening in Kent, the Lord Archbishop hath given that Rectory to the Rev. Dr. Geekie, and that his Grace hath given the Rectory of Woodchurch near Tenterden, void by such Removal of Dr. Geekie, to the Rev. Mr. Herbert Randolph, Rector of Deal. D. Post.

Wednesday, March 11.

On saturday last, the Rev. Dr. Crow was presented to the Living of St. Botolph Bishopsgate, having in the gift of the Right Rev. the Lord Bishop of London. Post Boy.

"In the Courant of this day our learned Brother Mr. Ozell gives notice, that Next blessed term will be put to press Numb. 2. of that blessed Labour of love, the Herculean Labour, or the Augæan Stable cleansed of its heaps of Historical, Philological, Chronological and Geographical Trumpery. He also informs us, that he is resolved to go through with the Roman History, and after that Grub his pen; which we had reason to imagine he had done long ago.

"Whereas in the Daily Journal it is advertised, that on sunday Morning the house of Mrs. Pill, in Butt-lane, Deptford, was broke open, and the following things stolen, viz. A Widow's weed of black Bumbazeen, almost as good as new, a pair of Men's snuff-colour'd velvet Breeches, with gold buttons and button holes, almost new, a small bed quilt, &c. I desire (for some private reasons) to be informed, whether these three Articles were stolen from the same place."

Edinburgh, Mar. 2. Mr. Stevenson, Chaplain to Mr. Dundas of Arnaston, is appointed Professor of Greek in our University, in the room of Mr. Scot, deceased Cour. Mar. 10.

We hear Brigadier Mackintosh, Prisoner in the Castle on account of the late Rebellion, lies dangerously ill. Ibid.

Dublin, Feb. 28. On Sunday Night last Mr. Thomas Williams a young English Gentleman, was unfortunately drowned at George's Quay, where he went to walk about 12 o'clock, it being a bright Night, for an Amusement, but unhappily fell into the water, and was carry'd away by the Flood before he could be help'd, but was taken up at Ringsend Yesterday Morning. Some Time past he purchas'd a Quarter Master's Warrant in Col. Stanhope's Dragoons now lying at Sligoe, but had left his Troop to see some Friends in this City, who exceedingly regret his Loss. Courant, Mar. 10.

The Post Boy adds that the Coroner's Inquest brought in their Verdict Accidental Death.

We are informed that Jeremy Hording, an ingenious Smith, of Wood-street, Westminster, is making a new invented Machine for spinning, exceeding any thing the town hath yet seen for dispatch, and capable of employing any number of hands at pleasure.

* * *

FOREIGN NEWS.

Thurday, March 5.

Riga, Feb 10 N.S. Yesterday the new Czarina of Muscovy arrived here from Mittau, with a numerous Retinue, and was received by our Magistrates in a body with all possible magnificence; but her Czarian Majesty set forward the same day for Moscow, which place she proposes to reach by the 18th or 19th Instant. Letters from that capital city advise, that the great Council are drawing up a Scheme for a new Form of government to be presented to the Czarina upon her arrival; according to which Scheme, the chief direction of affairs will be left to that council. They add, that Baron Osterman, who had been very ill since the death of the late Czar, was somewhat better, but did not yet come to council, so that the High Chancellor Count Golofskin sign'd all the dispatches, that the princess Dolgorucki, who was betrothed to his Czarian Majesty is to have a pension of 5000 Rubles a year; that Count Wratislau, the Emperor's Ambassador, was frequently in conference with the Russian Ministers, about the 30,000 auxiliary troops promised by that Court; and that all things remained very quiet in that Capital. Courant.

Yesterday arrived a Mail from Flanders.

Naples, Feb. 14. We are equipping here, by order of the Visceroy, our Ships of war, the St. Leopold and St. Charles, and victualling them for six months; and many Tartanes are hired to sail with these Ships to Trieste and Fiume, to imbark there German troops for the Imperial Regiments which are in this Kingdom and in Sicily. Daily Journal.

Ostend, March 1, O.S. We had Yesterday a very hard Gale of wind, by which an English Ship, laden with Coals, and a French fishing Vessel were lost in our Road; the Crew of the former were drowned, but the latter were all saved. The Bilboa Merchant, Smethurst, is sailed for Cadiz. Ibid.

This day we had two Mails from France.

Madrid, Feb. 21, last Week arrived at Seville an express dispatch'd from Florence by father Ascanio a Dominican, who takes care of the affairs of his Catholick Majesty at that Court with letters of great importance which were delivered to the Marquis de Paz and the same express was sent back to Florence three Days afterwards. The King has sent fresh orders to Cadiz. for the Galleons to put to Sea by the 10th of next Month. Even Post.

Paris, March 8. Letters from Rome say, that the new conclave for electing a Pope in the room of Benedict XIII. deceased, was to be opened the 1st of April, and that in the mean time great Interest is under hand making for the said Succession: 'Tis added that his Holiness's death has put a stop to all proceedings which were going forward to oppose the entrance of Don Carlos into Italy, on account of the Pope's Pretentions to Parma and Placentia as Fiefs of the holy See. St. James's Even. Post.

This Article has occasion'd a warm Debate among our Astrological Members, whether the Opening the Conclave on the 1st of April is to be esteemed ominous to his future Holiness, or to any other Princes of Europe.

'Tis added from Rome, that not one Step further has been made towards a Reconciliation between the Courts of Rome and Portugal, so that the difference remains in Statu quo. Letters from Seville say, that the Troops designed to embark on board the fleet at Cadiz, were actually marching towards that place to embark, and that three Months provision were put on board; likewise that the Galleons were on the point of setting sail, and that their Convoy was to consist of four men of war of the line, carrying 50 Guns each. Ibid.

Saturday, March 7.

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from Holland.

Cleve, March 11. N.S. There is nothing talk'd of here but war, and amongst the rest, we are told there is to be of 12,000 Hollanders in our Neighbourhood the beginning of May; to wit, upon the Mokerheyde, between Nimeguen and Grave. All the Princes of the Empire are compleating their forces; and the troops of the Circles are to hold themselves in a readiness to march upon the Emperor's command. 'Tis written from Ratisbon, that they are like to have the most important debates in the Diet, that has been known for many years; and namely, upon the subject of the treaty of Seville, which is to be laid before them; and that to be provided against all events, several Ministers expected particular instructions from their respective Courts. From Brunswick we are advised, that the King of Prussia's Minister, to shew his Master's good inclination to put an amicable end to his differences with the Court of Hanover, has made a new proposal to the Arbitrators, which gives ground to hope, that an accommodation will soon be concluded. Cour. St. James's, and Whitehall Even.

Paris, March 6. N. S. Every thing seems to portend a war; men are forced into the service here, as well as in the other Towns of the Kingdom, to compleat the Regiments; and the officers are ordered to their respective posts. Several Engineers are gone, by command, to view the fortifications of our frontier towns, and care is taken to have the money ready to make good all deficiences: But above all other places, Metz is to be made impregnable. Men talk of the Count de Coigny and M. D'asfelt to command the French troops which are to march to Italy, if there be an urgent necessity, We hear there will be a promotion of Marshals of France out of hand. Count Kinski, the Emperor's Ambassador, is preparing to return home; and 'tis said the Pope's death prevented the Nuncio's being ordered to depart this Court. Cour. Ev. Post, St. James's, and Whitehall.

Brussels, March 13. N.S. We have sent to Vienna the names of three persons, for the Emperor's nomination of one of them to be Bishop of Ghent, viz. the Prince of Hesse-Darmstad, Prince Alexis of Nassau, Titular Archbishop, and M. Strickland, Bishop of Namur. But 'tis thought the first will have it. The express that arrived here on friday with the news of the Pope's death, brought an account of a sort of Insurrection at Rome, upon the Cardinal Camerlongo's arresting some favourites of Cardinal Coscia; and that the gates were shut four days upon it. Cardinal Bossu has received orders from Vienna, to go to attend the Conclave. The Faction of Albani being much the strongest, is thought that either Cardinal Corsini or Cardinal Olivieri will be chosen Pope. Ibid.

Monday, March 9.

Cadiz, Feb 14, N.S. We have now received certain advice, that the Flotilla, which sailed hence the 9th of August last, arrived at Vera Cruz the 24th of October; but that one of the Merchant-ships belonging to it was missing; but they do not give us her name, or any other circumstances. Tho' the loading of the Galleons does not now go on so vigorously as before, we are nevertheless assured, that such of them as are ready will depart next month, with the men of war; and that the rest will follow in proportion, as they can get their loading. It is confidently affirmed, that the Honduras Ships will likewise be dispatched this year. Men work night and day for the equipping the men of war designed for the expedition of Don Carlos. Courant.

Yesterday arrived a Mail from Flanders.

Cologn, March 10. They write from Vienna, that vigorous Resolutions have been taken there, in relation to the affairs of Italy; and that the Ministers of the Grand Duke of Tuscany and the Duke of Parma were present at the great Council which was held on that Subject. On the other hand, it is advised from Swisserland, that the Court of Spain is absolutely resolved to transport the 6000 Spaniards to the Dutchies of Tuscany and Parma. D. Journal

Wednesday, March 11.

Milan, Feb. 25. The Imperial Troops that are expected here from Germany are to rendezvous in the Mantuan, in order to march into Tuscany, to cover that Dutchy, and oppose the Entrance of Foreign Troops: They are to do the like in regard to the Dutchy of Parma. The Orders are already given to prepare Provisions and Forage for those Troops, and we talk of getting ready a Train of Artilery. D. Post and Journal.

Vienna, Mar. 4. Count Maximilian of Staremberg has Orders to prepare for his Departure to Italy, to command the Troops there; and an Equipage is getting ready for Prince Eugene, who it is believed will go thither also in case of a Rupture. D. Journ.

The Course of the Exchange.

Amsterdam 34 a 35

Ditto at sight 34 2

Rotterdam 34 5

Antwerp 35 3

Hamburgh 33 2

Paris at Sight 32 7 8ths a 3 4ths

Bordeaux at sight 32 5 8ths a 1 half

Cadiz 42 5 8ths

Madrid 43 1 8th

Bilboa 42 7 8ths

Leghorn 52

Genoa 54 7 8ths

Venice 48 7 8ths

Lisbon 5 s. 6 d. 1/4

Porto 5 s. 5 d. 1/2

Dublin 12

Prices of Corn at Reading and Basingstoke.

At Reading At Basingstoke.

Wheat p. Load 7 l. to 9 l. 5 s. 6 l. to 8 l. 5 s.

Barl. p. Quar. 19 s. to 1 l. 2s. 18 s. to 1 l.

Oats 17 s. 16 s. to 19 s. 6 d.

Horse beans 1 l. 6 s. 1 l. 8 s.

Hag peas 1 l. 7 s. 1 l. 7 s. 6 d.

White Peas 1 l. 12 s.

Price of Goods at Bear Key on Tuesday.

per Quarter

Wheat 23 to 30

Rye 14 to 15 6

Barley 14 to 16

Oats 9 to 15

Horse Beans 20 to 26

Hog Peas 17 to 20

Boiling Peas 23 to 26

Pale Malt 18 to 22

Brown Malt 18 to 21

Tares 24 to 30

Coals 21 s. to 23 s. per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 35 s. to 56 s. per Hundred.

Hope 1729 20 s. to 29 s. per Hundred.

Rape Seed 14 l. to 15 l. per Last.

N.B. The Price of Rape-seed is risen very high at New-gate.

On Tuesday Stocks were

South-Sea 101 half to 5 8ths. Annuities 106 14th. Bank 140 14th, for the Opening. Bank Circulation 6 l. 10s. Premium. India 184. Three per Cent. Annuity 94 3 4ths. African 40. Royal Exchange Assurance 87. London Assurance 12. York Buildings 15 1 8th. English Copper 3 l. 15 s. Welch ditto 1 l. 14 s. South Sea Bonds 4 l. Premium. India Bonds 4 l. 12 s. ditto.

* * *

The General Shipping LIST.

Ships arrived and sailed from Great Britain, from March 3, to March 10.

Ships Captains From For

Falmouth.

Arrived.

Feb. 27. Jam. & El. Buchanan Glascow Morlaix

Christ. of Leith Banks Bordeaux

Mar. 2. Townsend Cooper Corun. 10 da.

Success Spourne Lyn Oporto

Henrietta Bailey Bristol Rotterdam

Young Isaac Youraskey ——— Middleburgh

Two Friends Williams Bristol

Plymouth.

6 Fortune Crow S. Sebastian

John Wife Rotterdam Lisbon

Two Brothers Howard Topsham Newfoundla.

King David ——— Rochel Zuricksea

Ann Tushee Croswick Dartmouth

Torrington Wareup N. England

Pr. Frederick (late Haynes now)

Rad-Mochahan

Dartmouth.

11 Joseph Newcome Dover Lisbon

6 Algarvis Olding Faro Holland

Weymouth.

Pr. William Williams Dunkirk

Terra nova Soaper Hambugh Malaga

Southampton.

7 Ann & Elizabeth Ayres Dunkirk

Mermaid Dormer Guernsey

Batch. Endeav. Bonomay ditto

Hope Le Crass Jersey

Portsmouth.

3 Happy Return Matthews Rotterdam

4 John and Mary Barkham Guernsey

Katherine Beale ditto

5 Southampton Cockram Hamburgh Streights

Concordia Fors Dunkirk Marseilles

Union Callis Amsterdam Leghorn

Providence Baynet Havre Lisbon

6 Lethieuler Shephard ——— East-India

Downs bound home

5 Isabella Clear Seville

Charity Oret Oporto

6 Guinea Packet Martin Guinea

7 Hen. & Priscilla Lucas Morlaix

Providence Roche Bilboa

Samuel White Lisbon

8 Belly Blake ditto

Hare Baker ditto

Champion Franklin Oporto

Severn Carpenter Maryland

Mary Austin Carolina

Gravesend bound home.

2 Anne Beveridge Amsterdam

Lemingsburgh Leades Embden

St. Clement Strobart Bruges

John Lecoe Camphire

Runman Hendricks Hartingen

Bibao March. Henshaw Rotterdam

Flanders Merc. Weyman Ostend

John and Mary Todd ditto

Princess Ann Fowler Rotterdam

Britannia Howlatson ditto

Ann Weight ditto

Pickfat Bell ditto

3 Anna Maria Vermy Amsterdam

Pr. Cassimire Johnson Friesland

St. Francis Demay Ostend

4 Salmon Gode Amsterdam

Morning Star Blare ditto

5 Windsor Allen Rotterdam

Harlequin Holbruok Bologn

6 Wilhelma Worms Hamburgh

Lady Ma. Gert. Boysman off Harwich

Anna Maria Belman ditto

George Behn ditto

Maria Worms off Lowestoft

Unity Carsteens ditto

Susanna Sutton Oporto

Katherine Rowlandson Rotterdam

Isabella Clear Seville

Anna Maria Belman Hamburgh

John and Mary Perchard Guernsey

8 Lady Ma. Gertr. Boysman Hamburgh

Queen Ann Simondson Norway

Rich. and Eliz. Bradford S. Valery

Han. & Zippor. Cranwel Rotterdam

Ebor Robinson Bilboa

Moore Moore Dieppe

Charity Avet Oporto

Diamond Young Rotterdam

Hen. & Priscilla Lucas Morlaix

9 Three Brothers Thompson Lisbon

Blessing Hubboard Guernsey

Cesar Bough Rotterdam

Gravesend bound out.

3 Success Watts ——— Dublin

Nancy Withgrow ——— Guinea

Jane Mascaws ——— France

4 Mary Powel ——— ditto

Elizabeth Lee ——— Carolina

5 Batson Cook ——— Portugal

Matenex Beard ——— ditto

Everton Burket ——— ditto

Cornwall Skinner ——— Streights

6 Amelia Brooks ——— Jamaica

Chandois Jewers ——— ditto

Young Lucas Felket ——— ditto

7 Townsend Kelham ——— ditto

Providence Hammond ——— Dunkirk

Concord Jennys ——— Gibraltar

Eagle Dornford ——— N. England

Russell Baily ——— ditto

8 Anne Mackwell ——— Newfoundla.

Preston Hallum ——— Lisbon

Sarah Bazett ——— Carolina

Downs bound out.

2 Phenix Ports Hamburgh Cadis sailed

March 3

Susannah Harrison ditto Lisbon

4 Success Hammond ——— Oporto

Success Watts ——— Dublin

Resignation Springhold Rotterdam Lisbon

Freegift French Camphire ditto

6 John and Sarah Moore Bristol Hull

Shelburne Cowel ——— Jamaica

Surat Merchant ——— ——— S. Kitts

Supply Randolph ——— Maryland

Content Hume ——— ditto

Cane Mackane ——— Hav. de Grace

Belson Cook ——— Oporto

——— Paxton ——— Gibraltar

Elizabeth Lee ——— Carolina

Nightingale Robinson Dieppe

Nancy Lishcot ——— Giuney

8 Robert & Mary Robinson Sherant Dunkirk

Sailed

Dartmouth.

Feb. 28. Dolphin Surridge N. England

Southampton.

Mar. 7. Henly Gal. West Oporto

Portsmouth.

3 Primrose Neesome Calais

4 Nicholas Roberts Norway

Dover.

3 Henrietta Maria Ouchterlony Hamburgh

Downs bound out.

Pr. William Bearford East India

Lethieullier Shepheard ditto

Wind March 3. N.E. 4. S.E. 5. S. 6. S. by S.W. 7. S.S.W. 8. S.W. 9. N.W. by N.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

Just Publish'd

The second Edition of

FREE Thoughts on Religion, the Church, and National Happiness. By B. M. revised, corrected and enlarged, with many Additions by the Author.

Printed for John Brotherton, at the Bible in Cornhill.

This Day is published,

Numb. I. of a Compleat History of Executions,

BEING an Account of the Life, Writings, and Crimes of Williamson Goodburn, of the University of Cambridge, lately executed at Tyburn: With an ingenious Letter to his Friend, and part of a Poem of his writing.

Remarks on the whole Life and various Actions of John Everest, the noted Highwayman, and an Account of Henry Nowland and Thomas Westwood, Footpads. Printed together, to as at the Year's end to make a handsome Volume; for which Purpose a compleat Index will be given with the concluding Number.

Printed by R. Newton at St. John's Gate, and sold by A. Dod at Temple Bar, E. Nett, at the Royal Exchange, and the Pamphlet Shops. Price 4 d. in common Paper.

Tomorrow will be published,

{{di|R}EMARKS on the Proceedings of the French Court, from Charles VII. to the later Part of the Reign of Lewis XIV. shewing what little Regard has been had to the Faith of Treaties, the Ties of Blood, Marriage, Friendship and Oaths, &c. particularly in what manner they have dealt with England, Germany, Spain, Portugal, Poland, Sweden, Sicily; not omitting the States General, the Electors of Brandenburg, Palatine and Mentz, the Dukes of Lorrain and Newburg, &c. Proper to be compared with the present Times, and to be perused by all true English Men; by which they may judge, how far the French are to be depended on by their Allies, either in Time of Peace of War.

Odimus accipitrem, quia semper vivit in armis.

Printed by S. Palmer and J. Huggonson in Bartholomew-Close, and sold by J. Wilford, in Stationers-Court near Ludgate. Price one Shilling six Pence.

This Day is Publish'd,

THE LIFE of the Right Rev. Dr. White Kennett, late Lord Bishop of Peterborough, with several original Letters of the late Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr. Tennison, the late Earl of Sunderland; Bishop Kennett, &c. and some curious original Papers and Records, never before published. And also

The Foreigner's Guide: Or, a necessary and instructive Companion, both for the Foreigner and Native, in their Tour through the Cities of London and Westminster. Giving,

1st. A general Description of these two Cities, with an Account of their respective Government.

2dly. A Description of the Royal Palaces, Noblemens Houses, publick Buildings, Churches, Streets, Squares, and the most remarkable Places in and near the famous Metropolis: With an Account of the Inns of Court, Royal Society, publick Walks, Diversions, remarkable Days, Court Days, Post Days, And,

3dly. A Description of the several villages in the Neighbourhood, as Chelsea, Kensington, Richmond, Greenwich, Woolwich, Hampstead; and also others more remote, viz. Hampton-Court, Windsor, Oxford, Cambridge, Blenheim, New-Market Horse Races, Epsom, Tunbridge, Bath. And,

4thly. An Account of the Rates of Coaches, Watermen; and also the Rates of Post Horses, with the Roads to Dover and Harwich.

Very useful and entertaining both to Foreigner and Native, and done into English and French.

Printed for, and sold by Francis Cogan, at the Middle Temple Gate in Fleet Street.

* * *

LONDON: Printed and Sold by J. Roberts in Warwick-Lane, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in; and at the Pamphlet-Shops of London and Westminster, and also at the Pegasus (vulgarly called the Flying-horse) in Grub-street. (Price Two Pence.)

