The Grub-street Journal — May 7th, 1730

Exported from Wikisource on May 12, 2026

Numb. 18.

The Grub-street Journal.

* * *

Thursday, MAY 7. 1730.

* * *

An Essay towards a new Theory of Physick, in a Discourse read before the Grubæan Society, by Ephraim Quibus, M. D.

Nunc ratio quæ fit Morbis, out undo repente

Mortiseram possit cladem conflare coorta

Morbida vis Hominum generi, Pecudumq; catervis

Lucret. L. VI.Expediam.———

BEING very sensible of the great honour you have lately conferred upon me, in admitting me a member of this Society: I think my self obliged to endeavour to shew that I am not altogether unworthy of the place you have allotted me amongst you. I flatter my self that I shall be able to do this by discoursing after a new manner, on a subject of the highest importance; the health and safety of Mankind. I am about to propose a Theory of Physick, different from all, which have been already invented: a Theory not depending upon precarious Reasonings, but supported by a great number of curious and exact Observations.

In the first place, I lay down this universal Proposition, that all Diseases whatsoever owe their Origin to Animalcules. This will seem no very surprising Doctrine, to those, who are already convinced, as indeed most are, that each animated body was once contained in one of those Animalcules, which the sagacious Lewenhoeck first discovered in the semen masculinum. It is certain, that not only this, but all the other Fluids whatsoever contain a great variety of Animalcules, of different forms, which inhabit each Fluid, as their proper Element. There are very few, who have not had the pleasure of seeing those in Vinegar and Pepper water; and those who are sufficiently curious and diligent, may see other minute Creatures even in those pure and unmixt Fluids. Now I only desire it may be considered, that there are many, various Fluids secreted in every Animal body, and it being granted that each of these Fluids has several proper Inhabitants; it will necessarily follow that there must be an almost infinite Number of various Animalcules in all such Bodies. Hence, it will be easy to understand, that various Diseases may arise. Thus, if we receive any Aliment into our stomachs, which is of a destructive nature to those Animalcules, which inhabit the proper Fluid contained therein, it is easy to comprehend that the consequences will be various, according to the different effects of this invasion on the constitution of the Animalcules. If they are able to give sufficient resistance to those violent attacks, and overcome them; we are sensible of some disturbance in our stomachs, but the peccant humour being thrown off, is carried down thro' the Intestines, and so the disorder is ended. On the other side, if the Animalcules are not able to sustain the Attack, but sink under it: a number of their Carcasses, lying dead at once, will cause an uneasy and dangerous putrefaction in the stomach. And if the admitted Food be of such a nature as to occasion strong convulsions in them, this effect must have a secondary one on the stomach, and causing a tender motion in its Fibres, oblige it to throw up and discharge the offending matter and the Animalcules together. Nor will this disorder cease, till its cause be removed. Nor will the stomach even then perform its offices justly, till a sufficient supply of new Animalcules be generated, to restore it to its natural state. And hence appears the necessity of administering an Emetick in these disorders of the stomach which by vellicating its fibres will oblige it to throw up the contending parties; before the whole constitution suffer by so dangerous a conflict. After the operation of the Emetick, we usually administer an Opiate, which generally puts an end to the disorder. Whether this be effected by any power those Medicines have of taking off the uneasy vellications of the Fibres; or whether they have a property of invigorating the surviving Animalcules: or whether Opium may not even contain some Eggs of the same Animalcules, seems not altogether unworthy of our inquiry.

Should I explain every Disease, according to my Hypothesis; it would take up much more time, than we allot for our meetings. I shall content my self therefore to speak only of some few at present; and reserve the others for some future Opportunities. I have found, in observing human blood on the Microscope, that there is one particular Animalcule, amongst many others, which is not very much unlike the Sea tortoise in shape. This, I am persuaded, is the general cause of Fevers. It is not improbable, that this Creature is more prolifick in some seasons and constitutions, than in others. When it happens that great numbers of these are generated, the vessels are distended, and the Animalcules pressing each other cause a greater motion in the blood and consequently a quicker and stronger contraction of the Arteries. The bodies of these Creatures being very broad, and their heads small, they frequently attempt to pass thro' some minute vessels, which cannot admit them. This accident stops others that follow them; and more continually following, without being able to proceed; a dangerous obstruction is necessarily made, great numbers of the Creatures choaked, and the life of the patient in the utmost danger. Now, if by proper medicines, we can cause any of the Glands lying near the so obstructions to dilate so far as to admit a large quantity thro' them, there is hope that the Disease may be removed. If the Glands of the skin are thus affected, great shoals of the Animalcules are thrown off in a profuse sweat; if those of the Intestines, by stool; and if the Kidneys, they come away by urine. Give me leave to add, that the Sediment of the urine is nothing else but these Animalcules dead in great numbers, which sink to the bottom of that Fluid: as will appear by examining them on a good Microscope.

I have observed another Animalcule to be very frequent in human blood, which very much resembles a Lobster. This no doubt is the cause of the scurvy. For, when it is driven towards the surface of the Body, along with the matter, fitted for perspiration, it lays hold on the vessels with its claws, and causes those uneasy irritations in the Skin, of which persons subject to that distemper are apt to complain.

I could easily account for all the symptoms of every Disease, if the time would admit of it and could shew how even our thoughts depend on variously figured Animalcules. So that when we speak of Maggots in the Brain, we use a more literal expression than we generally imagine. I shall beg leave to take another opportunity of discoursing before you on the application of this Theory to Practise: and endeavour to lay down a most certain Method of curing all Diseases whatsoever, by a various treatment of these trouble some Inmates.

To Mr. Bavius. Chelsea, May 2, 1730.

SIR,

YOUR learned Society having for some ages claim'd a right of publishing accounts of wonders; I desire to lay before you one which lately happened in this Place. A Lady, who had for some time lost the use of her speech, was directed in a dream to come to the Physick-garden here; and eat of a Plant, the form of which, and place of growth, were at the same time revealed to her. In obedience to this Vision she came, and, tho' a stranger to the place, went directly to the plant, eat heartily of it, made signs for a draught of water: upon the drinking of which the use of her tongue was immediately restored.———

Our Correspondent proceeds here to communicate the name of the Plant, and give a learned description of it: But our Society were unanimous in their opinion, that the name of so pernicious Plant ought to be suppress'd. And the learned Mr. Professor Hecatomb thought it not improbable, that a Plant, which had a power of making a dumb woman speak, might augment that Faculty in some others to such a degree, as to become very destructive to the peace of Society. He added that he was of opinion, that as much care ought to be taken in destroying this plant, as was formerly applied to the extirpation of wolves. Dr. Quibus, on this occasion, informed the Society, that he had discovered some Glands in the tongue, which separated an oily liquor, incapable of mixing with the nervous Fluid: that this liquor was full of little nimble Animalcules, on which he judged the volubility of speech to depend. He added, that he did not doubt, but that the Plant, of which the Lady had eat so plentifully, contained a large quantity of oily, lubricating particles, which were capable of restoring the before mentioned Glands, to their wonted tone and use.

We are obliged to one of our Correspondents for the communication of the following Epitaph;

HHERE lies Honest William Dawe,

Atho' an Attorney at Law:

  If he be not blest,

  God help the rest.

The same Gentleman has favoured us with an Emendation of the Epitaph on the Bailiff, inserted in a former Journal. He reads it thus;

HERE lies John Coom,

A bailiff of the Boom;

  When he dy'd

  The Devil cry'd,

Come, John, Come.

This, as he well observed, is better, than as it stood before;

One day he dy'd,

And the Devil he cry'd.

One day is superfluous; for he must die one day certainly. The and and he in the next line are meer Expletives.

* * *

LONDON.

Thursday, April 30.

By a letter under Mr. Edm. Overall's hand, printed in the Post Boy, Apr. 30. he gives an account of 74l. 16s. 6 d. distributed among the Fire-mens Widows; which being added to the sums distributed by him before, makes 216l. 19. which he says has been a great and seasonable relief to the poor Widows, and fatherless Children whose subsistence in a great measure depended upon the labour of their deceased Husbands and Fathers.

Last night the Corpse of the late L. Chief Baron Pengelly was interred with great solemnity in the Temple-Church: when the Pall was supported by the L. Chief Justices Raymond and Eyre, and the 4 senior Judges Price, Page, Denton, and Reynolds. Post Boy.

Yesterday the Court of King's-bench ordered a Rule for an information against Francis Draper of Market-Raisen in Lincolnshire, Apothecary, for forging a Certificate of the life of Anne his Wife, in whose right he was entituled to an annuity of 14l. as long as she lived, the reversion of which belonged to the Million Bank. It seems she died June 14, notwithstanding which he got [I suppose forged] a Certificate, [pretended to be] signed by the Minister and Church wardens of the parish, that she was living June 25, 1718, and by virtue thereof received 3l. 10s. at the Exchequer, for a quarter of a year's annuity due at Midsummer. This Draper is said to be worth a considerable Estate in land and money and in good practice but having for this crime subjected [exposed] himself to the ignominy of the pillory, is fled from his family and business, and skulks about in concealment and obscurity. Post Boy.

'Tis written from Cadiz, the 18th instant, N.S. that they continued to refuse admittance to British Ships coming directly from Gibraltar; yet if they touched but at Tetuan, or elsewhere on the Coast of Barbary, they were freely admitted. D. Journal.

On tuesday night died at his house in Soho-square Col. Ed. Ridley, one of his Majesty's Justices of the peace for the liberty of Westminster, and Captain of a company in the 3d regiment of foot Guards. 'Tis said his illness was occasioned by his visiting Col. Charteris in Newgate: and 'tis observable that Col. Rich. Ellis, another justice of the peace, died also of a Fever he took by visiting the said Gentleman in his confinement, with the aforesaid Colonel; and a 3d Gentleman who was with them, has been dangerously ill, but is recovered. Daily Post.

The friendship of some persons is frequently more fatal than their enmity.

Monday night Mary Kingston, wife of Will. Kingston, a Stationer, in Cursitor's alley in Chancery-lane, was committed to New-prison, Clerkenwel, by justice Newton, on suspicion of counterfeiting his Majesty's Stamps on paper. There were several Quires in searching the Shop found stampt with false dies, and an iron instrument or screw, supposed to be made use of for that purpose: Mr. Kington was not at home when the officers came to search his house, and since absconds. D. Post.

Yesterday morning about 1, a fire broke out at Mr. Scott's, at the Elephant and Castle ale-house in Fleet-street, which burnt the same, and considerably damaged 2 more. How it began is not certainly known; several squibs of Gun-powder were found in the cellar. Tho. Clement, a lodger, and pedlar by his employment, and women perished in the flames, who were the same day dug out of the rubbish miserably burnt. D. Journ.

Yesterday Drummond and Shrimpton, lately hanged in chains on Stamford-hill, were removed with their Gibbet to a remote part of the Common, near the place where Joseph Still was hanged in the like manner. Post Boy.

The bodies of Blewit and Burnworth, who were hanged in chains in St. George's fields, were yesterday taken down, and 1 of them was hung upon an old Gibbet on Bristow Causeway, and the other on Kennington Common, on the Gibbet where Berry (one of the same Gang) now hangs. Daily Journal

On monday last died Mrs. Tuffnel, a maiden Gentlewomen of a very great fortune, at her lodgings in Essex-street. Daily Post.

We hear that a young woman hath charged a certain Knight with a rape. Ibid.

On tuesday the following petition was presented to his Majesty, by the Right Hon. the Lord Mayor and Court of Aldermen of this City, humbly Shewing:

THAT there having been lately erected a Play-house in a place call'd Goodman's-fields, near adjoining to the said City, (but not within their jurisdiction) and amidst great numbers of persons concerned in Trade, and particularly in the silk, woollen, and other Manufactures. And your Petitioners having reason to be apprehensive of very many ill consequences from the continuance of the said Play-house, and the representations performed in the same, more especially as affecting the Morals, lessening the industry, and losing the time of those persons employed in the said Manufactures; which, it not prevented, may prove to be of very great prejudice to the Trade of this City. And as the Actors of the said Play house pretend to act by authority; your petitioners most humbly apply to your majesty (with a full assurance of your most gracious disposition towards the trade, welfare, and prosperity of this City) to give such orders for the suppressing an evil of so dangerous a consequence, as to your Majesty in your great wisdom shall seen meet.

To which his Majesty was pleased to answer;

YOUR care and concern for the trade of the City, and the welfare of your fellow Citizens, is very much to be commended; and you may depend upon my complying with what you, with so much reason and justice, desire of me upon this occasion. The Even. St. James's.

Yesterday Mr. Odell, Master of the new Play-house in Goodman's fields, waited on his Majesty at Court, begging his Majesty's royal leave for continuing plays to be acted as usual; but we hear his Majesty was not pleased to grant his request. Post Boy.

This is a very great disappointment to some Gentlemen of our Society, who have written for this Theatre, where their Pieces met with so good a reception, that they hoped the taste of this part of the Town would have been rendered so elegant as soon to relish the polite entertainments of The Authors Farce and Puppet Show, and the Tragedy, of Tom Thumb, now performed at the Theatre in the Hay market, as several News Writers inform us, before a Humorous audience of Quality, with universal applause.

Saturday died at his seat of Heaton, near Manchester in Lancashire, Sir Holland Egerton, Bar. who married Eleanor, youngest Daughter of Sir Rog. Cave, of Stanford in Northamptonshire, Bar. by whom he hath left issue 3 Sons and Daughters; and is succeeded in dignity and estate by his eldest son (now) Sir Edw. Egerton, Bar. a minor about 10 years old. Sir Holland was a kind and loving husband, an indulgent parent, a most sincere friend, and an excellent Magistrate; his Virtues and the many good offices he did in private life, are too many to be enumerated, that it may justly be said of him, he has left but few equals. He likewise was a curious Antiquarian, had a great Genius for Heraldry, and was of so affable and communicative a disposition, that his death may be deemed a publick loss. He is to be buried at Madely in Staffordshire, with his Ancestors. 4 Even. Posts.

On monday last at Guildhall, a trial came on between a Land-broker, Plaintiff, and another Person Defendant, for selling an estate of 2200l. for which the Broker demanded 1 per Cent, as a custom: but the Court were of opinion, that the custom could not be maintained. However, upon the Defendant's confession, that he promised to give him a suitable recompence, he recovered 15l. 15s. Ibid.

Orders are given by the Right Hon. the E. of Essex, Ranger of S. James's and Hyde Parks, that no Coaches, Carts, Drays, or Horses, except those belonging to his Majesty's houshold, shall ride or pass thro' Hyde-Park, or water horses, as usual; the Road leading to Kensington being repairing for the more commodious passage of the Royal Family this season. The Even. and Whitehall Even. Posts.

We hear from Exeter, that Mr. Fry, the Exeter Carrier, has had the good fortune to find in a Wood near Lescard, upwards of 400 l. of his money; and 370 l. more in a field half a mile from Exeter; and was in search of more pursuant to some information he received while in the Country. Ibid. and Lond. Even. Post.

Mr. Fredrick Pless, some time since committed to Newgate for publishing a Libel, entitled, A letter to a Member of Parliament in the North, was on tuesday admitted to bail before the L. C. J. Raymond, himself being bound by recognizance in 500 l. and his 2 sureties in 250 l. each. Whitehall, and Lond Even. Posts.

This morning Mr. Just. Reynolds was sworn, before the L. Chancellor, L. C. Baron, in the room of the L. C. Baron Pengelly, deceased. Lond. Even. Post.

Friday, May 1.

Mary Kingston who was committed to new prison, on suspicion of counterfeiting the Stamps, was yesterday. committed to Newgate. Cour. and D. Post.

His Majesty hath been pleased to grant an Annuity of 1200 l. to Thom. E. of Macclesfield, during his Majesty's pleasure, which Annuity his Lordship received in the late King's reign. Courant, Daily Post.

On monday last the Right Hon. the L. Carteret and his Lady landed at Park Gate from Ireland, and on wedn. night lay at his Lordship's seat in Bedfordshire; and last night they arrived in Town at his house in Arlington-street, in good health. Post Boy.

Yesterday at a Court of L. Mayor, Aldermen. &c. it was agreed, that all the Fines that should arise from those Gentlemen that were nominated for Sheriffs, should be appropriated towards building a mansion house for the L. Mayor for the time being. Ibid.

Yesterday in the ruins of the fire in Kent-street, the body of a child was found, very much burnt. Daily Journal.

The same day, about 4 in the morning, the house of Mr. Walter, a Taylor in Angel court, near Story's-gate in Westminster, fell down with 10 people in it, who were all asleep in their beds. None were quite killed, but all were miserably bruised, except Mr. Walter and his Wife, who lay in a parlour, where the roof and wainscot stood, tho' the walls, with all the rest of the house, fell to the ground. Ibid.

Saturday, May 2.

Yesterday, at the sittings of the Court of King's-bench, Westm., came on the Trial of Joseph Rous, Esq; of Hampstead, upon an indictment for perjury, in an Affidavit made by him on Feb. 3, 1728-9, in the said court, in a cause there depending between Byron and Hates: but the Defendant's council insisting upon a material variance between the Indictment and the Record, he was acquitted, without entring into the merits. Cour. But we hear that affair will come on again next term. Daily Post.

Thursday last 2 persons were taken in the detectable sin of Sodomy, in the Green-park, the back side of Buckingham-house: one of which found means to make his escape from the Person who had him in custody; but the other, whose name is Thom. Dobson, being examined before justice Cook, was yesterday committed to Newgate. Post Boy.

Saturday last Will. Gordon and John Doyle being apprehended on suspicion of being notorious Highwaymen, and being committed by the Lord Mayor to Newgate; all such persons who have been robbed near this city, may see them at Newgate, where they are at present confined. Daily Journal.

The Rev. Dr. Bloomer was sworn in one of his Majesty's Chaplains in ordinary. Crafts-man.

The cargo of the Heathcote, which is arrived at Plymouth from East-India, cost the Company in India 120,000 l. sterling. Ibid.

Yesterday his Grace Will. D of Portland took the oaths and his seat in the house of Peers. St. James's Even. His Grace came to age in march last. Lond. Even. Post.

The Even and Whitehall Even. Posts of April 30. tell us, that the Duke arrived here from Holland last friday; and that in a month's time he sets out for his travels beyond the Seas.

Letters from Paris take notice, that a Superior of a Convent of Cordeliers, having seduced a young Girl, and laid hold of all the money of the Society, fled with her towards Holland. Which being known the very next day, 2 of the youngest and most zealous of the Brotherhood were sent in pursuit of him, who overtook him in a Town in Flanders; where, applying to the civil Magistrate, they caused him to be seized: but it happened that while one of our good Fathers, with the Commissary, was conducting the Superior to prison, the other took an opportunity of laying hold of the Girl and the Money, and made the best of his way, and got clear off to Holland, where all persons are received as good Protestants, who run away with Popish mony. St. James's Evening Post.

We hear that Edw. Walpole, Esq; 2d son to Sir Rob. Walpole, and Master of the Exchequer-office in Lincoln's-inn, and joint secretary to the Treasury with John Scrape, Esq; is elected Member of Parliament for Lostwithiel in Cornwall. St. James's and Lond. Even. Post.

A proclamation has been issued in Ireland for the apprehending of 5 Papists, viz. Murtagh Murphy, Cornelius Murphy, Cornelius Croneen, Matthew Croneen, and Owen Donaghue, who, March 4, forcibly broke open and entered the house of John Healy, of Coolgarill in the county of Cork, armed with guns, clubs, and long skeans or knives: who, after having knocked down the said Healy, and most unmercifully beat him, barbarously cut him on the face and head, and other parts of the body after which they tied him, cut out part of his tongue, cut off his ears, and put his right arm upon a stone, and gave it several strokes with intent to break it; they also stabbed him near the eyes, with intent to put out the same. They also assaulted the wife of the said Healy, big with child, and near the time of her delivery, and her litter, and most inhumanly wounded them, and cut out the greatest part of their tongues; and afterwards robbed the said Healy of all his houshold goods, and 4s 6d. in money. The Even, Whitehall and Lond. Even. Post.

Our Brethren, the Authors of the Universal Spectator, who (like eminent Physicians of whom the World never heard but in their own Advertisements) advertise weekly, That their Paper exceeds all other Journals in home News, tell as in relation to the fire in Kent street, That a Gentleman coming along at the instant the fire began, observed smoak and fire issuing out of a cellar window; and a fellow lying along upon his belly at the door, and thrusting something under it. The Gentleman immediately cried out fire, you will be burnt in your beds. This alarmed the watch. &c.

They likewise add, That yesterday morning early, the like accident, and by the same villanous means, had almost took effect at Snow's fields in the Borough. Three fellows were got upon the top of a Blacksmith's house, and some old boarded sheds, thrusting some combustible stuff under the tiles, and with a candle setting fire to it, it immediately burst into a flame; but some people going out a Maying, perceiving it, cried out, the rogues made off, and the people of the house waking, soon extinguished the fire.

In the former of these paragraphs, it seems very odd, that a Fellow should be seen thrusting something under the door, after smoak and fire issued out of the cellar window: the business being done effectually, one would have imagined, that the Fellow should have conveyed himself away. The latter paragraph is as improbable; and, as it stands, not intelligible. However, it is a full proof of the good correspondence kept up between these Gentlemen, and those of Snow's-fields and Kent Street; and of the truth of their weekly advertisement; their Paper, both as to the matter and the manner of their home news, this week at least, certainly exceeding all other Journals.

Monday, May 4.

Saturday last as several young people were gathered about a Milk-woman's Garland, a cart came by, and in their endeavouring to get away, a boy about 6 years old was pushed down, and the cart wheel ran over his head, and squeezed out his brains. Courant.

The Hon. Tho. Townshend, Esq; 2d Son to the Rt. Hon. Lord Visc. Townshend, was married last saturday night to Miss Selwyn, Daughter to Col. Selwyn, a young Lady of 10,000 l. fortune, at her father's Country seat at Dansell in Kent. Daily Post.

On tuesday ended the diversion at New-market for this season, when the E. of Portmore's mare beat the Duke of Bolton's horse for 50 guineas, tho' 6 to 2 were laid against the Mare before they started. Ibid.

Tuesday, May 5.

A Court of Delegates sate yesterday at Sergeant's-inn in Chancery-lane, in a cause wherein Martha Bredmere was Plaintiff, against Will. Rhodes and Ma. Manby, Defendant, concerning the will of Hen. Rhodes, late Bookseller. The question was, whether the said will was a forgery or not. After several hearings the court referr'd the matter to an agreement: Martha Bredmere agreed upon this condition, that 1000 l. be paid within 10 days; which if not paid, the cause to stand for a future sentence. Rhodes paid the charge of 14 guineas to each Judge. The E. of Isla presided, and gave the 14 guineas to the poor widow Bredmere. Cour. D. Post.

Yesterday his excellency Horat. Walpole, Esq. was sworn in Cofferer of his Majesty's Houshold, in the room of the E. of Lincoln, deceased: and on friday his Lady was delivered of a Daughter. Post Boy.

Last night about 9, the new-born Son of the Lord Walpole was baptized by the name of George, at his Lordship's house in Grosvenor-street, his Majesty, with Sir Rob. Walpole standing God-fathers, and her Majesty God mother. The Ceremony was performed by the L. Bishop of London. Ibid.

The Daily Journal May 2. performed this ceremony on thursday night last.

Yesterday morning died at her apartment in Whitehall, the Hon. Ms. Arabella Godfrey, Sister to the late D. of Marlborough, Relict of Col. Godfrey. She had issue by K. James II the present D. of Berwick, and the late Dowager Lady Waldgrave; and by Col. Godfrey, the Lady Visc. Falmouth, and Mrs. Dunch. She was aged about 90. D. Post.

The same morning came an account from Montpellier, that George E. of Lincoln died there in the 13th year of his age. Ibid.

Yesterday morning died in his house in Southampton-street, Bloomsbury-square, the Hon. Art. Moore, Esq; eminent for many years in Parliament for his great knowledge in trade, and every branch of the national interest. St. James's and London Even. Posts.

At the Christening of the Lord Walpole's Son, 180 weight of rich cake was given away. St. James's Even. 60 cakes which cost 6 guineas each. Lond. Even. Post.

On friday last at an election of a Mayor of Norwich, the numbers stood thus, viz. Ald. Pell 1153. Ald. Marsh 1126. Ald. Cene 868. Ald. Vere 850. St. James's and Lond. Even. Posts.

Col. Chartres hath cohabited with his Lady for some days at her lodgings in Piccadilly; and on saturday next she sets out on her return for Scotland. St. James's Ev.

This morning about 3 o'clock Mr. Harrison, a Jeweller in King's-street, Westminster, was attack'd in the Strand by 3 soldiers, who robb'd him of a silver watch and some money. Ibid.

Wednesday, May 6.

They write from Coventry, that last week the Wife of the Rev. Mr. Rider, Vicar of Nuneaton, near that City, was safely delivered of four Children, who were all living. About 10 months ago she had 3 Children at a Birth, who are also living. D. Post.

Yesterday the Hon. the Lord Chief Baron Reynolds took his Seat in his Majesty's Court of Exchequer at Westminster for the first time. Courant.

Sir Charles Wager is preparing to set out to take upon him the Command of the Fleet that is appointed to assist Don Carlos in his Expedition to Italy. Ibid.

The Election for Alborough in Suffolk (which was said to be over in the St. James's Evening) does not come on till Friday; the Candidates are Captain Purvis and Sir John Williams.

Corsey Wilts, April 28. last Saturday Noon we had a Shock of an Earthquake which held some Minutes, and extended 10 or 12 Miles into Somersetshire.

From the Pegasus in Grub-street, Wedn. May 6.

Complaint was made, that several Anonymous persons, who by their style plainly shew themselves to be latent Members of this Society, frequently send Copies of verses to the Authors of other Newspapers, in order to be published: some of which are immoral, as particularly a Copy on a Lady, printed in the Universal Spectator, Numb. LXXXI. and others are in defence of our Society against its most inveterate enemies, particularly Dr. Swift and Mr. Pope. This practice was declared to be of most pernicious consequence; and a Resolution was passed, That for the future endeavours would be used to find out the Authors of scandalous and immoral verses, and a publick censure should be pass'd on them, exposing them to the world by their true names. And as to those who write in defence of the Society, they are ordered to bring or send their Pieces hither, that they may be published with our approbation in our Journal. And particularly the Author of the admirable verses in vindication of Sir Rich Steele against Dean Swift, printed in the Daily Journal, Sat. May 2. Numb. 1908, is desired to send a correct Copy of them with additions. The 5 last lines were much applauded by the Society:

 Thus S———t, a Dean by O———d made,

 A Burlesque on his Holy Trade,

From highest summit of Buffoonry fell,

(Loaded with the contempt he merits well)

For ribbald Wit, to the profundest Hell.

Mr. Mævius observed that the cadence of the 3 last lines represented, in a surprizing manner, the fall of the Dean from the summit of buffoonry to the profundest Hell; than which as nothing could be more profund in place, so nothing could possibly be more profund in Poetry. London Even.

We are informed, that last friday and saturday the Depositions of several persons were read in Chancery, in relation to the evidence given by one Philips, lately deceased, who had been a Sea Chaplain, and Reader at St. Georges Southwark. The evidence he give was at the Assizes at Maidstone above a year ago, where he swore, that about eighteen years before, he baptized a Daughter of Mrs. Hosier, or my Lady Hosier, as she is called by some, and that he saw the late Vice-admiral Hosier not long after in the West-indies, who owned both the Mother and the Child: upon which evidence chiefly a verdict was there given for the marriage of the said Mrs. Hosier. In order to perpetuate which evidence, he procured the said Philips to be examined on his death-bed by an examining Clerk. The heir at Law to the real estate, exhibited a Bill in Chancery against this. Where this matter being inquired into, it appeared by the evidence of several persons, and the confession of the examining Clerk himself, that during the time of the examination of Philip, the said Mrs. Hosier came up twice into the room, where she prompted him in 2 particulars. One was in telling him the name of her Father's house which he had forgotten: and the other, whereas he at first said he had known the Vice. Admiral but 5 years, which was accordingly put down in his depositions; after she had been in the room, he said it was 20 years; upon which the deposition was altered to that number. Upon the whole, the Lord Chancellor and the Master of the Rolls, not only refused to confirm Phillip's evidence, but charged the said Mrs. Hosier, &c. with the whole costs, turned the Clerk out of his place, and committed him to prison.

* * *

FOREIGN NEWS.

Thursday, April 30.

Yesterday arrived the Mail from France.

Rome, April 19. N.S. On the 13th the 2d Son of the Chevalier de St. George fell down Stairs, and made a considerable wound in his head; but it is not thought dangerous. Post Boy, Daily Post.

Naples, April 11. Mount Vesuvius continues to cast forth such large quantities of flame, that the inhabitants of the towns and villages near it have been obliged to quit their habitations. Ibid.

Paris, May 6. We learn from Venice, that in a violent earthquake at Malta di Carrara, divers houses had been overturned, and many persons buried under the Ruins. Actions are risen again to about 116 Livres. D. Journ.

Lisbon, March 30. The great Huntsman of Portugal's Lady was brought to bed the 27th instant of 3 daughters. The Even. Post.

Saturday, May 2.

Yesterday arrived the Mail from France.

Fountainbleau, May 4. N. S. The Deputies of the Parliament of Paris, who had been sent for, being conducted into the King's Cabinet, he said to them: I sent for you, to let you know my displeasure at the assemblies you have held since April 3. My Chancellor will tell you the rest. Who thereupon stood up and said, The King forbids you to meet any more without his permission, unless the First President be there. He commands you to meet out of hand, and to annull your former deliberations, so that no footsteps may remains of these Assemblies: and unless you do this, he will no more use you like a Father, but like a King. Then his Majesty said, I command you to execute my intentions, which my Chancellor his declared to you. Then turning to his Advocate he said, I am satisfied with you, Gentlemen. Thereupon the first President answered, Sire, the Parliament are extremely concerned, that they have deserved the reproof which your Majesty has given them. They will endeavour to face the same out of your Majesty's memory. Post Boy.

Vienna, April 16. The hopes which were conceived of an approaching accommodation seem now entirely vanished; since 'tis assured, that his Imperial Majesty his declared, that he would not hearken to any proposition contrary to the Quadruple Alliance. Daily Post and Journal.

Breslau, April 23. Oelse, the oldest Town next to this in Lower Silesia, is intirely burnt down. Courant.

Tuesday, May 5.

Sunday arrived a Mail Flanders, and yesterday another from France.

Vienna, April 19. The new Levies, and other preparations for war, which had in some measure been slackened, are now begun again with more vigour than ever, and with great success. The 9 regiments of horse in Hungary, which are to march into the Empire, have received orders to advance to the frontiers. D. Post.

Paris, May 6. Letters from Dunkirk 25th of the last say, that a Foreigner arrived there the 19th, who went by the name of Gerardin, but his true name was Brinsdoll, an Englishman, attached to L. B. He went for a Coal-merchant, and, in effect, is nothing but a Spy: he stayed but 1 day. Ibid.

Venice, April 29. On wednesday an express went thro' this City, in his way from Rome to Vienna, with advice that Cardinal Conti died on the 23d of this month, in the Conclave, of a fit of the Apoplexy, in the 66th year of his age. London Even. Post.

* * *

Ships arriv'd at and sail'd from Great Britain, from April, 29, to May 4.

Arrived

Ships Captains From For

Falmouth.

24 Prudence Bodier France

25 Success Hallum Oporto Hull

28 Otter Sloop Williams ——— Plymouth

29 Leghorn Fact. Arnold S. Cruz

Hannah Corney Madeira London

Mary Ivery Sherant Havre

Walter Best Alicant

Bonaventura Bilboa Hav. de Grace

Dolphin Grible Biddeford Rotterdam

Mary Dupraton Bury Brest

Success Donkin Bourdeaux ditto

Plymouth.

25 Prudence Rodier S. Martins Guernsey

Speedwell Bennet Gallipoly Bremen

Herbert Barnaby S. Rhemo Amsterdam

Francis Hammon Bilboa

(illegible text)

28 Tryal Stafford

Mary Pusher Plymouth

29 Curlew Turner S. Sebastians

Industry Dixon Plymouth

Unity Mitchell Padstow Dunkirk

Portsmouth.

24 Tho. & Mary Bradford London Mala. sail'd 30

Rebecca Burridge Rotterdam

29 Samuel Read Norway Hamburgh

Downs bound out

28 Succession Thomas Smirna

Thomas Luckins Malaga

Gravesend, bound home.

Jos. & Ann. Richmond Norway

Ric & Mary Morly ditto

Abby Kell ditto

Thomas Wall ditto

Vine Ketteridge ditto

Peter Guerin Calais

29 Vine Wickerman N. Bergin

7 Sisters Martin Jersey

Thomas Luckins Malaga

Jos. & Mary Rogers Norway

Unity Eades

Tho' & Francis Johnson Dunkirk

Tho. & Eliz. Bracon Roan

Bologne Hamilton Bologn

30 Richmond Hutton Rotterdam

Essex Scott Norway

John & Mary Francis ditto

Nath. & Tho. Hammond ditto

Sam. & Mary Holland ditto

1 Chandois Jewers Rotterdam

George & Lora Perry Norway

2 Acton Moore ditto

Betty Allen ditto

Loudon Cason ditto

3 Brothers Kellet ditto

Loyal Judith Coultis Amsterdam

Unity Willis Norway

St. John Ev. Wittegrove Hambro

Regina Worms ditto

Townshend Ketham Rotterdam

Succession Thomas Smirna

Gravesend, bound out.

27 George & Ma. Bennet Petersburgh

Don Carlos Clark Malaga

Anne Wright Lisbon

28 Elizabeth Martin ditto

Hare Baker ditto

Recovery Palmer ditto

29 Paul Peterson Hambro

Lady Anne Clauson ditto

Charles Simpson Nov. Scotia

30 Tower-Gally Wingfield Cadiz

Pr. Louisa Banks Providence

Ann Beveridge Holland

Love ditto

1 Page Ashby ditto

Proneta Davy Streights

City of Lond Kettle Guinea and

Buenos Ayr

Lawrence Dumeres.

3 Garteret Durell N. England.

Sailed Apr. 27. Falmouth.

Expedition Clies Lisbon

Eagle Harris Corunna

Wakefield Norton Hull

Success Hallum ditto

Sailed Apr. 25. Plymouth.

Penlyre Ryley Leghorn

Figuera Merch. Dornford

Sailed May 3. Southampton.

Dolabella Stephens

3 Brothers Oliver

George & Jane Allix Guernsey

Friendship Janverin

Mary Fry Oporto

Sea-horse Gravet Canaries

Hopewell Curtis Barcelona

Sailed Apr. 29. Dover

K. George Hudson Hamburgh

Parham Pink Williams ditto

Britannic Draper ditto

Swan Donner Rotterdam

Endeavour Hartley Hull

Hopewell Haven Bremen

Sarah Bruce Yarmouth

Providence Brecon Sunderland

Prices of Goods at Bear Key on Tuesday.

per Quarter

Wheat 30 to 34

Rye 20 to 26

Barley 22 to 25

Oats 13 to 15

Horse Beans 24 to 28

Hog Peas 22 to 26

Boiling Peas 26 to 30

Pale Malt 26 to 28

Brown Malt 24 to 28

Tares 20 to 22

Coals 22s. to 26s. per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 26s. to 38s. per Hundred.

Hops 1729 39s. to 56s. per Hundred.

Rape Seed 16l. to 16l. per Last.

Price of Corn at Gloucester.

per Bushel

Wheat 4 to 4 10

Barley 2 to 2 6

Oats 1 6 to 1 8

Beans 3 2 to 3 4

Malt 3 6 to 3 10

Coals per Ton 9

On Tuesday Stocks were

South-Sea 102 three 4ths. Dutto Annuity 105 1 8th. Bank 141. India 188. Three per Cent. Annuity 95 1 4th. Million Bank 107 1 4th. Equivalent 102 1 half. African 48. York Buildings 17 1 4th. Royal Exchange Assurance 92 1 half. London Assurance 12 1 4th. Bank Circulation 3 4ths. Premium. English Copper 3l. 10s. Welch ditto 1l. 10 s. per Share. India Bonds 5l. 2s. Prem. South Sea Bonds 4l. 4s. Premium. Nevis and St. Christopher Debentures at 6 per Cent. Disc.

The Course of the Exchange.

Amsterdam 34 7

Ditto at Sight 34 4

Rotterdam 34 7 a 8

Antwerp 35

Hamburgh 33 3 a 4

Paris at Sight 32 1 half

Bourdeaux at sight 32 3 8ths

Cadiz 42 1 half a 3 8ths

Madrid 42 3 qrs.

Bilboa 42 3 qrs. a 5 8ths.

Leghorn 51 3 8ths

Genoa 54 3 8ths

Venice 49

Lisbon 5s. 6d. 3/8

Porto 5s. 5d. 1/2

Dublin 12

* * *

ADVERTISEMENTS.

This Day is published,

Printed on a superfine Paper, in two Volumes in Quarto,

SOME Observations made in travelling through France, Italy, &c. in the Years 1720, 1721 and 1722: Containing a large and particular Account of the most remarkable Curiosities in those Countries, as well such as relate to their Manners, Customs, religious Orders, Ceremonies, &c. as likewise of their Architecture, Paintings, Sculpture, and other Antiquities, which are esteemed most worthy of the Observation of an English Traveller. With some short Remarks on the Air, Soil, Productions, Trade, Manufactures at several Places, occasionally interspersed. By Edward Wright, Esq; illustrated with 40 curious Drawings, design'd upon the Spot by the Author, and engrav'd on Copper by the best Hands.

Printed for Messieurs Ward and Wicksteed in the Inner Temple Lane.

* * *

This Day is published,

THE Nurse's Guide; or, a right Method of bringing up young Children. To which is added, An Essay on preserving Health and Long Life, with a Treatise on the Gout.

By an eminent Physician

Printed for John Brotherton at the Bible in Cornhill, and Lawton Gilliver at Homer's Head in Fleet-street.

Where may be had,

A General System of Hydrostaticks and Hydraulicks, philosophical and practical. An Enquiry in the Original and Rise of Springs: Draughts and Descriptions of the best Engines for distributing Water for the supply of Country Seats, Cities, &c. illustrated and explained by 60 copper Cuts. Done by the best Hands. In 2 Vols. in 4to. By Mr. Switzer.

* * *

This Day is Publish'd,

AN Epistle to Philip Dormer, Earl of Chesterfield, occasioned by the late and present Situation of Affairs, in regard to War and Peace, by

Mr. BARFORD

Virg.Asperatum positis mitescent sæcula bellis.

——— Inter se firmabant fœdera dictus

Virg.Conspectu in media Procerum.

Printed for Lawton Gilliver at Homer's Head against St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet-street.

* * *

This DAy is Publish'd

THE LIFE of the Right Rev. Dr. White Kennett, late Lord Biship of Peterborough; with several original Letters of the late Archibishop of Canterbury, Dr. Tennison; the late Earl of Sunderland; Bishop Kennett, &c. and some curious original Papers and Records, never before published. And also

The Foreigner's Guide: Or, a necessary and instructive Companion, both for the Foreigner and Native, in their Tour through the Cities of London and Westminster. Givin,

1st. A general Description of these two Cities, with an Account of their respective Government.

2dly. A Description of the Royal Palaces, Noblemens Houses, publick Buildings, Churches, Streets, Squares, and the most remarkable Places in and near the famous Metropolis: With an Account of the Inns of Court, Royal Society, publick Walks, Diversions, remarkable Days, Court Days, Post Days. And,

3dly. A Description of the several villages in the Neighbourhood; as Chelsea, Kensington, Richmond, Greenwich, Woolwich, Hampstead; and also others more remote, viz. Hampton-Court, Windsor, Oxford, Cambridge, Blenheim, New-Market Horse Races, Epson, Tunbridge, Bath. And,

4thly. An Account of the Rates of Coaches, Watermen; and also the Rates of Post Horses; with the Roads to Dover and Harwich.

Very useful and entertaining both to Foreigner and Native, and done into English and French.

Where may be had,

LOVE LETTERS on all Occasions, lately passed between Persons of Distinction. Collected by Mrs. Eliza. Haywood,

Pleasure with Sorrow, Peace with War allay'd,

Liberty fetter'd, Hope by Fear dismay'd;

Imbitter'd Honey, Earnest mix'd with Play,

Are, Love! the Emblems of thy sov'reign Sway.

Printed for, and sold by Francis Cogan, at the Middle Temple Gate in Fleet-street.

* * *

This Day is published,

OPERA'S with the MUSICK.

THE FASHIONABLE LADY; or, HARLEQUIN's OPERA, In the Manner of a Rehearsal. As it is performed at the Theatre in Goodman's-fields. Written by Mr. Ralph. With the Musick prefixed to each Song.

Also just published, the 3d Edition (with Alterations) of

The Lover's Opera. As it is acted at the Theatre-Royal in Drury-lane. Written by Mr. Chetwood. With the Musick prefixed to each Song.

Momus turned Fabulist, or, Vulcan's Wedding. An Opera. After the Manner of the Beggar's Opera, As it is performed at the Theatre-Royal in Lincoln's-Inn-Fields. With the Musick prefixed to each Song.

The Beggar's Opera. As it is acted at the Theatre-Royal in Lincoln's-Inn Fields. Written by Mr. Gay. The second Edition: To which is added the Overture in Score: With the Musick prefixed to each Song.

Love in a Riddle. A Pastoral. As it is acted at the Theatre-Royal by his Majesty's Servants. Written by Mr. Cibber. With the Musick to each Song.

The Village Opera. As it is acted at the Theatre-Royal by his Majesty's Servants. Written by Mr. Johnson. With the Musick prefix'd to each Song.

The Quaker's Opera. As it is performed at Lee's and Harper's Great Theatrical Booth in Bartholomew-Fair. With the Musick to each Song.

And also just publish'd, the fourth Edition, of

The Fair Circassian. A Dramatick Performance, Done from the Original by a Gentleman-Commoner of Oxford. To which are added several Occasional Poems, by the same Author.

All painted for J. WATTS at the Printing-Office in Wild-Court, near Lincoln's Inn Fields, and sold by the Booksellers both in Town and Country.

* * *

Books printed and sold by John Brotherton at the Bible in Cornhill.

Life of Oliver Cromwel, 8vo.

Collection of Novels, 12mo, 6 Vol.

D'Ano's Tales of the Fairies, 3 Vol. 12mo.

Free Thoughts on Religion.

Pilgrim's Progress in 8vo, with Cuts, 2 Vol.

Spectators, 8 Vol.

Prideaux Connection, 4 Vol.

Musical Misc. 4 Vol. 8vo.

The Dancing Master, by Mr. John Essex, 4to.

Boyer's Telemachus, 12mo.

Gay's Fables, 8vo.

Gordon's Geog. Gammar.

Boyer's Dictionary in 4to, or 8vo.

Blais's Sermons, 5 Vol. 8vo.

Shakespear's Plays.

Addison's Works, 4 Vol.

Lockyer's Trade to India

Abelard's Letters

Garth's Ovid, 2 Vol.

Plutarch's Lives, 8 Vol.

Don Quixot, 2 Vol.

Guardians, 2 Vol.

Ovid's Epistles

Dryden's Virgil.

* * *

This Day is published,

A Sermon preached at the Church of St. Lawrence Jury, London, March 31, 1730, during Easter Tuesday. By Joseph Trapp, D.D. at his entering on the Tuesday Lecture there. Published at the Request of the Vestry.

Printed for Lawton Gilliver at Home's Head, opposite to St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet-street.

Where may be had,

His Sermon on the 30th of January, preached at St. Paul's, being the Fast Day for the execrable murder of King Charles I. Published at the Request of the Lord Mayor and Sheriffs.

* * *

Just Publish'd,

[Price 4d.]

The History of Executions, Numb. II.

(To be continued.)

BEING a compleat Account of the following Malefactors executor Tyburn, Apr. 17, 1730, viz. of Ferdinando Shrimpton and Robert Drummond, for Robbery and Murther, Peter Rivers, for robbery on the Highway. Francis Hackabount, a Footpad. William Newcomb, for House-breaking: And of those that were then reprieved.

Likewise how Coll. Charteris was pardoned for a Rape committed on Anne Bond. To which is added,

A genuine Information taken by seven of his Majesty's Justices of the Peace for the County of York, against a large Gang of Cheats, Thieves and Robbers, who at Times, infest every Part of the Kingdom; with a Description of their Persons, Haunts and Tricks.

Printed by R. Newton, at St. John's-Gate, and sold by the Booksellers in Town and Country

Where may be had,

Numb. I. Containing the Life of Everet, a noted Highwayman, &c.

* * *

LONDON: Printed for Capt. Gulliver and F. Cogan near the Temple, Mr. Jackson in Pall-Mall, and J. Brotherton near the Exchange, and Sold by J. Roberts in Warwick-Lane, where Letters and Advertisements, &c. are taken in. [Price Two Pence.]

