The Grub-street Journal — May 21th, 1730

Exported from Wikisource on May 12, 2026

Numb. 20.

The Grub-street Journal.

* * *

Thursday, MAY 21. 1730.

* * *

Shall we not censure all the motly Train,

Whether with Ale irriguous, or Champaign?

Whether they tread the vale of Prose, or climb,

And whet their appetites on cliffs of Rhyme?Young's 1 Epist. to Mr. Pope.

When in our last we inserted a short Account of a curious piece of Reasoning, in the Preface to a certain Epistle to Mr. A. Pope; we had not read the Epistle it self, which merits a more serious Treatment. We have been informed, that the Person most concern'd disapproved our taking even that Notice of it. However, no private Consideration must prevent us from pursuing the General Design and Duty of our Paper, which is to record the Productions of Grub-street, and to prove our impartiality, not only by remarking upon such of our unhappy Brethren, as (not unfrequently) chance to fall into Immoralities or Scandals, but by doing Justice to our greatest Enemies, of which we have now a glorious Opportunity, even to Mr. Pope. We must be forc'd to own, this Piece, tho' truly Grub-street, will be taken for a Libel, till the Facts asserted in it are proved, and till it be known Who are the Authors that assert 'em. For all Accusations against a Man's Character, without an Attester, are in Moral honesty presum'd Slanders and Lyes; and the Persons who publish such without full Proof (tho' they may be Members of our Society, tho' they may style themselves ever so Gentlemanly, nay, tho' they were Knights of the Bathos) will be accounted Lyers and Scoundrels.

To remove so great a Blot from Our Gentlemen, we here publickly invite any Person of Credit and Character to stand forth and attest any of the following Facts, which are contain'd in the said Paper.

Who will be so good as to say? that he hath seen or known of, any Prose or Verse work of Mr. Pope's, call'd The Progress of Dullness or by any other Title, which included a Satire on any Branch of Science whatever besides what is now contain'd in the Dunciad? Pref. pag. 6.

That the late Duke of Buckingham paid any Pension to Charles Gildon, which he took from him since his acquaintance with Mr. P. Notes. p. 22.

That the present Archbishop of Canterbury hath past any Censure on Mr. P. Epist. p. 11.

That Mr. P. ever writ, or spoke, complimentally, or over civilly, of or to Ch———rs. Ibid.

That Mr. F———n and he ever were at distance or variance with each other. Ibid.

That the Rev. Mr. Br———me ever asserted or complain'd, he was not gratify'd with a competent Sum for his Share in the Odyssey; nay did not own that he thought himself highly paid. Ib. 19.

That Mr. Addison or any other but Mr. P. writ, or alter'd, one line of the Prologue to Cato. Ibid. 12.

Who will name any young Writer, allow'd to have Merit, that hath been personally discourag'd by him; or who hath not received either actual Services, or amicable Treatment from him? Ibid. 8.

Who will instance any one riotous, lewd, drunken, or indecent Action, at any time by him committed? or any unpunctual dealing between Man and Man? or name one Person to whom he owes a Shilling, or a Couplet? Ib. 18. 19.

Who will give any instance of his Avarice, or want of Hospitality, Bounty, or Charity to any Friend, Acquaintance, or needy deserving Person? Or of his taking money, pension, or present, for praising or satyrizing any one in his Life? Ib. 20.

Whoever will testify any of these things, which you have asserted of Mr. Pope, shall receive for reward, the Panegyricks of all our Society.

But We must here suggest to our Brethren a Caution or two. It would be proper some body who knows should tell us punctually what is Mr. Pope's Estate? without which, it will be very hard to judge whether he is avaricious or not? We would also ask two Questions: one in regard to what is said of his Learning Greek, since Folks will be apt to think he could not well fail, during his long Employment upon Homer, to do that in ten years, which every Lad at the School and University can in three. My Question therefore is, which of you Gentlemen hath examin'd him, and is sure he is more ignorant than himself?

The other is, what Evidence will you produce, in a point you hint at, (doubtless of great importance to the Commonwealth of Learning) Whether Mr. Pope be, or be not, a Woman's Man? Since he has no Wife of his own to appeal to, can any of your Wives or Daughters bear Testimony in it? Or will you procure it from a Lady (suppos'd to have some hand in this piece) who has confidently reported He once was whipt; and 'tis thought very well knows, whether or no he stood in need of such an operation? That Lady is a Woman of Honour; and if she affirms it, the thing is clear———But methinks it is a little hard in you to take away All Mr. Ps. Abilities; since you allow him none as a writer. You assure us in the first page he is a bad Poet; nay hardly allow him that, for you say in the next, he is only a Stealer from bad Poets and Dunces: (It is strange he should chuse to steal from such, but if so, you have just cause to complain of Invasion of Property.) You assure us, he is not even a Versifyer, but steals the Sound of his Verses: (To steal a Sound is sure as ingenious as to Paint an Eccho; and I wish, for the sake of Harmony, we too had this Secret.)

In page 12 he is as bad as Ogilby———nay as Mr. Rowe. In page 13 he is dull, he is lively, he is quick, he is languid. In the remaining Pages, people like him too well, he has too many Friends, he lives at Ease, and is pretty well to pass.

All this, my Friends, we cannot possibly help, and in Christian Charity should be sorry for. But the Devil is what follows. Your Preface sorely complains, that some of you (I hop'd all) had been abus'd without Provocation. But Gentlemen should consider, that to some people Dulness is provoking; and that in such case, to call Gentlemen dull is no abuse, tho' it may be a Rudeness. You cannot bear, Gentlemen should be treated as Vermine and Reptiles. Now, to be impartial, you were compar'd to Flying Fishes, Swallows, Ostriches, Didappers, Tortoises, and Parrots; not Vermine, but curious and beautiful Creatures. You complain of being rank'd with the dullest Beasts: (You great Wits have short memories, for you see there is no beast in the whole List) and with the dullest Men. Alas! alas my Brethren, what will your Enemies say, when you speak thus of Each other?

But I pray, Gentlemen, do not you your selves take too much Liberty? Let us lay the saddle on the right Beast (Horse I mean). What Provocations could your unknown Honours ever receive, from any of those Eminent Persons, who never heard of your names, and whom you have abused in this very Poem. What Injury has been done any of you by the late Duke of Buckingham? whom you call a vile Poet; and bad Judge. Page 1. What by the Learned Bishop Atterbury? whom you call a Blockhead, and a Bungler. Page 16. What by the Ingenious Dr. Arburthnott and Dr. Swift? both whom you excriminate in your Preface, and yet call the one a Quack, a Pedant, &c. p. 16. and the other something worse. p. 20. What by Mr. Jervas, his Majesty's Principal Painter? whom you call a Breaker of God's Commandments. p. 17. What by the Right Honourable the E. of Burlington, the Lord Bathurst, or others? to whom you Gentlemen, that profess yourselves so well bred, have given as hard names, as to the rest. 'Tis true, you have at present omitted these last, in a sober fear of Cudgels and Scandalum Magnatum: but you have set Asterisks, with a promise to re-place them hereafter. p. 16. And may probably make it good, as soon as those Noble Lords shall be either in their Graves, or out of the Kingdom: Witness the Duke of Buckingham, and Bishop of Rochester, whom Gentlemen may safely libel.

But, my Brethren, to comfort you after what I have said (perhaps with Severity, but the Severity of a Friend) Your Poem is infinitely more innocent than the Dunciad. For in the one, there's no Man abused but is very well pleas'd to be abus'd in such Company; whereas in the other there's no Man so much as named, but is extremely affronted to be rank'd with such people, as stile each other The dullest of Men.

The foregoing Paper having been read by Mr. Mævius, and approved;

Mr. Pamphleteiro complained to the Society of a paragraph in Fog's Journal of last saturday, which he read as follows;

'If you will examine the Pamphlet, called Observations on the Treaty of Seville, supposed to be written by a profound Politician; if you will look into several other Papers, which come from the same Quarter, you will find it there positively asserted, that it was the most serene Powers of Grub-Street, that hindered the K. of S——— from accepting the provisional Treaty, &c.'

This, he said, he believed was a downright calumny, and that there was no such Reflection made in the Observations, &c. However, if there were, it was a groundless Reflection, the generality of this ancient Society being extremely well affected to his Majesty, and the present Ministry. In proof of this, he said it was known, that several wrote weekly Dissertations in defence of the Administration, particularly the two ushers of the London Journal; who have brought such unanswerable arguments in defence of Places and Pensions, that as Aulicus, in his letter published in the Craftsman of last saturday, justly observes, 'Every good subject will agree with the orthodox Writer of the London Journal, That there is no reason why a tradesmen, who has worthily served the Public, should be incapacitated to serve it any longer, because he is rewarded by the Public.'

Upon this Mr. Orthodoxo said, that as to the loyalty of either of those Gentlemen he had no objection, but he wondered why Mr. Aulicus should give either of them the Title of Orthodox, which they seemed both to despise. And that tho' they professed great humanity to all mankind, yet they had treated his profession with the greatest inhumanity in the following paragraph in their last Journal.

'But some knowledge in Natural or Experimental Philosophy he may easily obtain: 'tis a noble Study, for besides the pleasure which attends those Researches, it will inspire him with great and sublime Ideas of the Author of Nature; and which is more, it will infallibly teach him the Will of his Creator, and his own Duty. The study of this book of nature will save him the trouble of reading any other Books; by which indeed, he will learn little more than how to wrangle well about Distinctions without a Difference; to repeat sounds without sense and to hate mankind without a reason. Let him therefore carefully avoid the study of the Art or Science of Divinity, as he would preserve his Humanity, and keep his head clear, and his heart sound.'

This doctrine I think my self obliged to oppose, not only as I am a Divine, and consequently obliged to recommend the reading of the H. Scriptures, which are here represented as of no use; but likewise as I have the honour to be a member of this Society, which will receive great prejudice by reducing Arts and Sciences into a narrower Compass. Besides, this Gentleman seems not to act with that sincerity and impartiality, which the great Patrons of natural religion, uncorrupted by revealed, so much recommend. For he himself has often used Distinctions without a difference, and repeated sounds without sense, as Caleb Danvers has evidently made appear. Now if this way of writing be common to other Sciences, and of great use, particularly in Political Dissertations; why is Divinity reproach'd with it? And if he learned it by dipping into Theology; why is he so ungrateful as to decry a Science, to which he is so much indebted? But if his account of this Science be true, he has gone very deep into it, and is certainly a profound Divine; for he has made it manifest to the world, that neither his head is clear, nor his heart sound.

In order to cure the latter and to remove all hypocritical professions, so inconsistent with the dignity of human nature, I shall recommend the following Prescription, published in the Craftsman of last saturday.

Proposal for a General Toleration, in a Letter to Member of Parliament.

That no Infidel or Deist, by whatsoever Name or title dignified or distinguished, whether Arson, Socinian, Bangorian, Free-thinker, or Atheist, shall be liable to any of the Penalties that are to be inflicted by Virtue of any Act of Parliament for suppressing Blasphemy and Prophaneness.

Subject nevertheless to the following Proviso. That such person do in some of the Courts at Westminster-hall, or at the quarter Sessions of the peace, pubickly under his Hand abjure his Baptism, which abjuration shall be entered of record in the respective Courts; and a Certificate to be given gratis to the person, of such his Abjuration, which Abjuration shall be pleadable upon any Prosecution. And that no person so abjuring shall from thenceforth be admitted an Evidence in any case civil or criminal.

Bavius.

* * *

LONDON.

Thursday, May 14.

Yesterday the Lords Wilmington, Fitzwalter, and Ashburnham, were introduced to their Majesties, and had the honour of kissing their hands; as they were in like manner to the rest of the Royal Family, on their being created Earls of Great Britain. Post Boy.

We hear his Majesty has been pleased to grant to the Lord Visc. Townshend 3000l. per ann. during his life, for his signal and faithful services. Ibid. This is false.

Yesterday the body of Houghton, that hanged himself in the Cell at Newgate the day before, was carried in a cart to Hounslow-heath, and there hanged in chains. Courant. Hugh Houghton. Post Boy, Daily Post. Hugh Norton. D. Journ.

This person hanged himself in the following manner: He made his belt, which buckled up his irons, fast to the bars of the cell window; and to make it of a convenient length, he tied his handkerchief to it, putting the same about his neck; and without making a knot, kept hold of the end of it with his left hand, kneeling down till he was dead; in which posture he was found by his Keeper, who had not been from him 8 minutes. The said person had been purposely hired to watch him, to prevent his laying violent hands on himself, he having declared, when the poison he had taken was expelled, that they should not hang him. Even Post.

Last week the Rev. Dr. Lovell's eldest Son, a young Physician, of St. John's College, Camb. was married to Miss Minter of Ham, a young Lady of 10,000l. fortune. Post Boy.

A few days since Thom. Pelham, jun. Esq; Secretary to the British Ambassadors at the Congress, was sent to the Court of France, with a Commission from his Majesty. Daily Post.

Sir Archer Croft, Bar. is appointed one of the Commissioners of Trade and Plantations, in the place of Mr. Carey who is made Secretary of State to the Duke of Dorset, Lieutenant of Ireland. Even. Post.

Yesterday the Earl of Tankerville, who is appointed one of the Knights of the order of the Thistle, in the room of the Earl of Portmore, deceased, received the investiture of the said order from the hands of his Majesty. Ibid.

Monday last Dr. Bloxham was married to Mrs. Dowdeswell, Relic of the late Will. Dowdeswell, Esq; a Lady of 12,000l. fortune. St. James's Even. Post.

This day, at the Old Baily, John Yonge was tried for robbing Mr. Thom. Clinton on the Highway, in the Parish of Hays, in the County of Middlesex, of a mare, 3 broad pieces of gold, and some money. It was proved upon the tryal, that the prisoner had travelled in company with Mr. Clinton from Bristol to the place, where he knocked Mr. Clinton from off his horse, rifled his pockets, and afterwards shot him through the neck with a pistol, and rode off with his mare, leaving his own in its stead. The prisoner owned knocking him from off his horse, and taking his money; but denied taking away the mare, whereupon the Jury brought him in guilty. Ibid.

Last tuesday morning, between 12 and 1, a fire broke out at Clapham in Surrey, in the house of Mr. Poplet, a Baker, which entirely consumed that house, and very much damaged the bull alehouse adjacent. 4 Even. Posts.

On monday last his excellency Governor Belcher had the honour to kiss his Majesty's hand, upon his departure for the Government of New-England. St. James's and Lond. Even. Posts.

We hear that Mr. Aldworth, the vintner at Islington, hath disposed of his most curious piece of antiquity, the real dagger with which Sir William Walworth, Lord Mayor of London, killed the famous rebel Wat. Tyler, in the reign of Richard II. for 10 guineas. Ibid. This report is entirely groundless; he designing never to part with so valuable a curiosity. Cour. May 15.

We hear from Beckington, Somerset, that 2 men of Froome returning home from Norton Fair, on the 6th, one of them eased himself in the street; at which the people of the Town offended, threw stones at him; and he rising and defending himself, a battel ensued: but they were so barbarously beaten, that he died on the spot, and his companion also within 4 or 5 days after. Ibid.

From Norwich May 9. That Mr. Alderman Pelt was declared duly elected Mayor for the year ensuing. St. James's and Lond. Even. Posts.

From Shipton in Hampshire, that one John Wheeler a farmer and butcher of that place, having by his extravagancies run himself much into debt, and borrowed of his father 100l. for which he had acknowledged to him a judgment; last friday the father being informed that there was an action out against his son, seized all his effects to secure himself; at which the son was much enraged, and cursed and called the father after a vile manner, for which the old man struck him with a stick 3 blows on the head, the last of which proved mortal; for he died within an hour after, raving at, and cursing his father. The father went off, saying, he would not survive his son long, and he has not been heard of since. Ibid.

His Grace the Duke of Norfolk hath obtained a licence under his Majesty's sign manual to travel to Paris beyond the seas, and the latter end of this month his Grace will set out for France. Lond. Even. Post.

Friday, May 15.

Yesterday a woman leapt into the canal in St. James's Park; who being espied by a centinel at a great distance, he ran with all speed and leapt in after her, and brought her out; but she died in a few minutes afterwards. Cour. The Post Boy justly supposes her to be disordered in her senses.

The same day Is. Broderick, a school-master, was tried at the Old-Baily, for an assault on 2 of his scholars, with intent to commit the detectable sin of sodomy; and found guilty of both indictments. Post Boy.

The same day Rob. Lord Bingley was sworn Treasurer of his Majesty's Houshold, in the room of Sir Paul Methuen and afterwards sworn of the most honourable Privy Council. D. Post.

Dan. Daring, Esq; one of the Commissioners for the wine licences, brother-in-law to the Right Hon. the L. Visc. Percival, is made Auditor-General to his R. H. the Prince of Wales; which office was held by Sir Orlando Bridgeman, Bar. under his present Majesty when Prince of Wales. Ibid.

On wednesday last Mr. Pine, Engraver, presented his Prints of the procession and ceremonies observed at the installation of the Knights of the Bath, to their Majesties; and yesterday to his R. H. the Prince of Wales; and was very graciously received. Daily Journal.

Yesterday Mr. Whitfield, of the 6 clerks office, was married to Mrs. Wheeler, Niece to the late George Wheeler, Esq; (one of the secondaries of the Court of Common-pleas) a Lady of 6000. fortune. Daily Post.

Saturday, May 16.

Last night the R. H. the L. Visc. Townshend delivered up the seal of his office, as one of his Majesty's principal Secretaries of State, in his Majesty's closet at St. James's, and this morning he set out with a large retinue for his country-seat at Raynham-hall in the county of Norfolk. D. Post.

The same day, his Royal Highness the Duke sate the first time, to have his picture drawn by the famous Mr. Hessing of Leicester-fields. Post Boy.

The same day, Sir Robert Furnese, Bar. with the Hon. Rich. Edgcombe, Esq; were appointed to succeed his Grace the D. of Richmond, and the R. H. Sir Rob. Walpole, as Knights Companions of the most noble order of the Bath. Ibid.

Thursday last, the Rev. Dr. Thistlethwaite, Warden of Wadham College, Oxford, kissed his Majesty's hand, on his being made a Prebendary of Westminster, in the room of Dr. Gee, deceased. Ibid.

Yesterday morning Will. Cordwell, Esq; one of his Majesty's Justices of the Peace for the Couties of Kent and Surry, put himself upon his trial at the Old Baily, upon an indictment for a misdemeanor; and was honourably acquitted, without the Jury's going out of Court. Ibid.

The same day the Sessions ended there, when the 3 following Malefactors received sentence of death, viz. Will. Doyle for a robbery on the Highway, Anne Banbury for privately stealing 2 gold rings, some money, and other things; and John Young, for a robbery on the Highway, near Uxbridge. Anne Banbury was recommended by the Jury for mercy. Ibid.

Young's Wife was also tried for felony, in stealing a sum of money, and cast for transportation. Daily Post.

Isaac Broderick, the school-master, who was found guilty of a misdemeanor upon 2 indictments of an assault, with an intent to commit sodomy upon 2 boys about 10 years of age, who were his scholars, was sentenced to stand in the pillory twice; once at Charing-cross, and once at Ratcliffe, where the offence was committed; to be imprisoned 3 months, and to pay a fine of 20 nobles. D. Journ.

Two were burnt in the hand; and several ordered for transportation. Daily Post.

Col. Charteris appeared in court; and pleaded his Majesty's most gracious pardon, for the rape he committed on the body of Anne Bond. Post Boy.

His excellency Signor Galvas, Envoy extraordinary from the King of Portugal, went hence about a month since to Paris, hoping to find relief for a dangerous cancer in his neck, from the French Surgeons: but they having given him over as incurable, he is returned to Calais to embark for Lisbon. His Secretary is left here to take care of the affairs of Portugal. D. Post.

A few days since died Sir Justinian Isham, of Lamport in Northamptonshire, Bar. who has represented that County in Parliament with great honour for many years. He married Eliz. daughter of Sir Edm. Turner, of Stoke-Rochford in Lincolnshire, by whom he had 8 sons, and 6 daughters: he is succeeded in dignity and estate by his eldest son (now) Sir Justinian Isham, Bar. Ibid.

We hear from Aldborough, May 9, that yesterday came on there an election for a Representative in Parliament, in the room of Col. Wyndham, deceased. The Candidates were Sir John Williams, Alderman and Sheriff of the City of London; proposed to the Corporation by the E. of Stratford, (who is Lord of the Manor, and has an estate extending many miles about this Town) and one Captain Purvis, recommended by the Duke of G———, Sir Rob. Walpole, Lord T——— and Sir C——— W———: but after an unsuccessful attempt for Capt. Purvis, (no Gentleman of the County appearing for him but General Harvey, and Just Betts, (the recorder) he was obliged to decline it, before they proceeded to a Poll, though they depended much upon their outvoters. A great number of neighbouring Gentlemen appeared for Sir John Williams; and it was remarked, that the good effects of the Act against bribery and corruption were plain in this Election: for when the Electors were left to themselves, they made no hesitation in declaring for so worthy a Gentleman, who may promote the trade of their Town, and the good of their Country. Lond. Even. Post.

His Royal Highness the Duke is to be continued in the most hon. order of the Bath, and to wear the red Ribband with the blue, after the manner of his Grace the Duke of Montagu. Ibid.

It is said, Lord Harrington will have his Royal Highness the Duke's red Ribband. Daily Journ, May 18.

Rich. Pettit, Gardener to the Hon. Sir Will. Lemon, at North-hall in Hertfordshire, has presented the King, Queen, his Royal Highness the Prince, and Princess Royal with 3 brace of the first Mellons; the first brace on May 1, 1728. Presented his Majesty with a Mellon in the passion weak, which is the 8th year that this Gardener has presented the first Mellon to the Kings and Princes of England. This Gardener gives a challenge to the world to find a man that shall make a hot bed in England, upon honour, and to sow both one sort of seed, and both in one day, and the next year ensuing to bring the first Mellon to the King: The aforesaid Gardener goes 20 Guineas on his own head. Even. Post.

Is there no English, Welsh, or Hibernian Champion, who dares answer this bold Challenger.

Yesterday his Majesty came to the house of Peers, and after having given the Royal assent to the several publick and private bills, made a most gracious speech to both houses: then the Parliament was, by his Majesty's command, prorogued to tuesday July 14. All the papers.

Saturday, May 16.

We hear there is a particular account in Applebee's Journal of this day, of Abraham Israel, the jew, wherein are the most material actions of his site, and after what manner he robbed his master, &c. Daily Post.

Upon this recommendation, I consulted the said Journal; and to my great Surprize, found the following Preamble. The following is a true Copy of a Paper, which Abraham Israel, the Jew delivered to the Printer of this Paper, who was executed on tuesday last at Tyburn. I hope there is some mistake in this matter, and that our cautious Brother Applebee is yet unhang'd.

Monday, May 18.

Whitehall, May 13. His Majesty has been pleased to appoint the Right Hon. Thomas, Earl of Westmoreland, Paul Docminique, Thomas Pelham, Mar. Bladen, Ed. Ash, Esqrs, Sir Orlando Bridgman, Bar. James Brudenel, Esq; and Sir Archer Crofts, to be Commissioners for trade and plantations. Courant. The Right Hon. Rob. Lord Bingley to be Treasurer of his Majesty's houshold. Daily Post.

Her Majesty has been pleased to appoint John Selwyn, Esq; to be her Treasurer and Receiver-General, in the room of Sir Will. Strickland, Bar. Ibid. D. Journ.

On saturday last the Right Hon. the Earl of Tankerville, received the investiture of the most noble order of the Thistle, from the hands of his Majesty at St. James's. Ibid.

Yesterday morning died, in a very advanced age, at her house in old Bond-street, the Hon. Mrs. Frederick, Relict of the late Sir John Frederick, Bar. and mother to the present Sir John, whom he has left sole heir and executor. Post-Boy.

The body of Hugh Houghton, that was hanged in chains last wednesday on Hounslow-heath, has been since Stolen from off the gibbet. Ibid.

On saturday last was published a very remarkable Pamphlet, intitled, A Letter to the Crafts-man from Eustace Budgell Esq; occasioned by his late presenting an humble Complaint to his Majesty against a certain Great M———r. This Pamphlet is wrote with so much good sense, and in so genteel a manner, that people begin to think, that the unhappy Gentleman, who was so unjustly and industriously represented by some People as disordered in his senses, is really a man of as good sense as most in the nation. There was a strong report some time since, that this Gentleman was forbid the Court: but we are well assured, that be has appeared several times there, since he gave in his Memorial; and that he was very lately both at the King's and Queen's levee. These things afford speculation to the curious. Ibid.

It is written from Yarmouth of the 15th, that his Excellency Hor. Walpole, Esq, was re-elected for that Borough by a very great majority, the poll standing thus: for Mr. Walpole 403. for Mr. Elles, a Gentleman of that Town 113. Daily Journal.

On saturday Mr. Sawyer, one of the King's Scholars at Westminster, Grandson of the late Admiral Hughes, was presented to his Royal Highness the Duke, in his apartment at St. James's, and repeated the following compliment to his Royal Highness, being one of his own Exercises at Westminster-school, viz.

 ——— Dos est magna parentum

 Virtus ———

Angliacæ exemplar pulchrum, Gulielme, juventæ,

 Ut decus, ut noster, Dux bone, crescis amor!

In te conspicimus quicquid mirabile visu est,

 Quicquid in alterutro dulce Parente nitet.

Quod facis, o pergas vitutem utriusque Parentis

 Excolere; & regno dos tibi major erit.

Mr. Sawyer afterwards had the honour to kiss his Royal Highness's hand, and was afterwards entertained at Dinner at Court. D. Post.

My little Grandson Jeffry Quidnunc, a boy about the age of the Duke, has translated these Verses; but having no friend at Court to introduce him to speak them to his Highness, I am forced to content my self with shewing my own loyalty, and my Grandson's ingenuity, by publishing them in this Paper and I do assure the world, that these Verses are his own exercise, as the original was that of Mr. Sawyer.

The Virtue of Parents is a great Portion.

Fair pattern of our youth, how you improve,

William, at once our ornament, and love!

Wand'ring we see, whatever Grand, or Sweet,

Shines in each Parent in your Highness meet.

To cultivate their virtues still go on:

A Portion these far nobler than a Throne.

Tuesday, May 19.

Yesterday at noon a Chapter of the most noble order of the Garter was held at St. James's, for electing 3 Knights companions, in the room of his late Majesty King George I. William D. of Devonshire, and Henry, E. of Lincoln; when his Royal Highness the Duke, Rich. E. of Burlington, and Phil. Dormer, E. of Chesterfield, were elected with the usual Ceremonies, and invested with the ensigns of the order accordingly. His Royal Highness the Duke is to wear the red ribband pendant on his breast, and the blue ribband on his shoulders, and both the stars on the same side, one under the other, that of the Garter to be the uppermost and largest. Daily Post.

We hear that an express is sent for the Lord Visc. Torrington, on whose arrival in Town, several men of war will be put in commission. Courant.

Last week the Chevalier Ramsey, well known to the learned by the Travels of Cyrus, set out for France. Post Boy.

Yesterday the Rev. and Hon. Dr. Stanhope had the honour to kiss his Majesty's hand, on his being made Canon at the Royal chapel at Winsor. D. Post.

Dublin, May 9. There fell Ap. 17. a prodigious shower of hail of a very large Size, as big as Hazle-nuts at Wexford, which broke 190 panes of glass in the windows of the Barracks, besides many windows in the Town; and on the 25th, there fell such another shower of hail of an extraordinary size, which lasted near a quarter of an hour, attended with great thunder and lightnings at the Town of New Ross in the County of Wexford, which broke many glass windows, and beat most of the blossoms off the fruit trees, and did other damage. St. James's Even.

On Tuesday last Mr. Don. Kimberly, was brought to the King's bench Bar, and received sentence to be hang'd next Wedn. sevennight. Ibid.

Edinburgh, May 7. A Justitiary Warrant is issued out summoning Mr. Elphinston (who lately killed an officer of the Army in a Duel) to compere before that Court the 18th of June. St. James's Evening.

May 11. last Wedn. the Commissaries of Edinburgh pronounced sentence of divorce in the Action at the instance of Mr. Deuchar, against his spouse, for her committing adultery with Mr. Herdman, late his Apprentice. D. Journal. 19.

From the Pegasus in Grubstreet.

About 3 weeks ago, died that young blind member of our Society, Oedipus, alias, The Post-man remounted; who upon the sickness of Duncan Campbell, set up for resolving all hard Questions, thinking it very proper, that deaf and dumb Conjurer should be succeeded by one who was stark blind. His sedentary life brought upon him a complication of distempers, which the famous Dr. L———h was not able, with all his skill, to remove. To promote both his business and his own, this eminent Physician printed upon young Elzivirian types frequent Advertisements, remarkable for correctness and beauty; in which he was equalled by none but the ingenious Mr. Clifton. Both which Gentlemen as much contemn the little mechanical ornaments and niceties of printing; as Mr. Crossgrove of Norwich is careful in observing them. Mr. Oedipus was buried in a very private manner; and he is the third Political Writer of our Society, who has died under Dr. L———h's hands within these five months.

* * *

FOREIGN NEWS.

Yesterday arriv'd the Mail due from France.

Thursday, May 14.

Paris, May 20. N.S. Mons. Ranc, a celebrated Painter, who was sent to Spain to draw the Pictures of their Catholick Majesties, &c. and afterwards went to Lisbon, has received 2000 Crowns in Gold of the K. of Portugal, and a Diamond valued at 2000 Crowns, of one of his Majesty's Brothers, The D. de Bouillon, formerly great Chamberlain of France, &c. died here the 26th in his 62d year. The Actions are taken to about 1290 Livres. Courant. Post Boy.

Saturday, May 16.

Yesterday arrived the Mail from Holland.

The chief Remarkables are a confirmation from Muscovy, that 2 of the Dolgorouki's are banished, and a rumour that Prince Menzicof is alive, and like to come into play again. The 1st. Book printed at Constantinople, is an Arabick Dictionary, translated into Turkish by Ovancouri, making 2 volumes in Folio, one of 666 Pages, and the other of 756. Post Boy.

Monday, May 18.

Hague, May 23. The King of Spain still strenuously insists on the stipulated assistance from the Allies of Seville; so that as affairs now stand, all things seem to threaten an open War, the rather because the Emperor will not recede from his Pretensions in regard to the Quadruple Alliance, to which he seems unalterably determin'd to adhere. It is indeed true, great Princes use their utmost Efforts to bring to pass a Reconciliation between his Imperial Majesty and the King of Spain; but the Success of their endeavours is very uncertain. D. Post.

Paris, May 24. The Abbot Sevin is safely arrived at Marsellis, bringing with him two Chests full of very scarce Manuscripts, in the Greek, Arabick, Turkish, and Armenian languages, of which there are not yet any Copies in the Kings Library. Ibid.

Prices of Goods at Bear Key on Monday.

per Quarter

Wheat 30 to 31

Rye 22 to 26

Barley 21 to 25

Oats 12 to 16

Horse Beans 22 to 26

Hog Peas 21 to 23

Boiling Peas 26 to 30

Pale Malt 24 to 28

Brown Malt 20 to 24

Tares 20 to 22

Coals 24 s. to 26 s. per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 25 s. to 35 s. per Hundred.

Hops 1729 39 s. to 59 s. per Hundred.

Rape Seed 15l. to 161. per last.

On Tuesday Stocks were

South-Sea 103 1 8th. South Sea Annuity 105 7 8ths to 106. South Sea Bonds 4l. 3s. Bank 140 3 4ths. Bank Circulation 7l. Million Bank 107 1 half. India 189 1 4th to 1 half. India Bonds 5l. Royal Assurance 92 3 4ths. London Assurance 12 1 8th. York Buildings 19. African 49 1 half. Three per Cent. Annuity 95 1 half. English Copper 3l. 10s. Welch Copper 1l. 3s.

The Course of the Exchange.

Amsterdam 34 6

Ditto at Sight 34 4 a 3

Rotterdam 34 7

Antwerp 35 1

Hamburgh 33

Paris at Sight 32 7 8ths

Bourdeaux at sight 32 1 half

Cadiz 42 1 half a 3 8ths

Madrid 42 3 qrs. a 5 8ths

Bilboa 42 1 half a 3 8ths

Leghorn 51 1 half

Gene 54 1 half

Venice 49

Lisbon 5s. 6d. 3 8ths

Porto 5s. 5d. 5 8ths

Dublin 11 3 4ths

Several of the News Papers having removed the Inhabitants of the Cloysters into the Long Walk, we think it not amiss to correct this Mistake, by assuring them, that your old Friend George Hall, Haberdasher, lives at the Corner of Gray friers in Newgate-street, Mr. John Pills, Boddice-maker, to the Corner of Christ Church, Newgate-street, and that Messieurs Birch and Rhodes, continue in the only Corner House left in the Cloysters.

* * *

Just Publish'd,

Printed together in 8vo exactly from the Dublin Copies. Price 6 d.

1.A LIBEL on Dr. DELANY and a certain great Lord, by Dr. Sw———, occasioned by certain Epistle to ———. 2. An Epistle this Excellency the Lord Carteret, by Dr. D———y. 3. An Epistle on an Epistle, or a Christmas Box for Dr. De———y 4. Dr. Swift's Proposal for preventing the Children of poor People from being a Burden to their Parents or Country, and for making them beneficial to to their Country.

N.B. There is a spurious Edition of this Collection, Printed for A. Moore, first published under the Title of A Satire, &c. and since twice altered, in Imitation of the above, and tho' pretended to be a second Edition, contains the Errors of the first, and is still incorrect. The Key of this Libel will be added to the next Piece of this Author which shall come over, and will be published by Capt. Gulliver.

Printed for Captain Gulliver near the Temple, and sold at the Pamphlet Shops.

Where may be had, the third Edition, of

Cadenus and Vanessa, or the Judgment of Venus. A Poem. By Dr. Swift. Price 4d.

* * *

To the Worthy Livery-Men of the City of LONDON.

Gentlemen,

YOUR Vote and Interest are humbly desired for

HENRY RAPER, Esq;

Citizen and Painter-Stainer;

AND

JAMES CHAMBERS, Esq;

Citizen and Goldsmith;

To be Sheriffs of this City and County of Middlesex, for the Year ensuing; who are the Two foremost in the List of those Gentlemen that for many Years past have been nominated by several Lord Mayors to serve that Office.

N.B. It has been unanimously resolved in Common-Council, that for the future all Sheriffs Fines shall be appropriated ONLY towards building a Mansion-House for the Lord Mayor, so much wanted to support the Honour and Dignity of this Great City.

* * *

This Day is published,

Printed on a superfine Paper, in two Volumes in Quarto,

SOME Observations made in travelling through France, Italy, &c. in the Years 1720, 1721 and 1722: Containing a large and particular Account of the most remarkable Curiosities in those Countries, as well such as relate to their Manners, Customs, religious Orders, Ceremonies, &c. as likewise of their Architecture, Paintings, Sculpture, and other Antiquities, which are esteemed most worthy of the Observation of an English Traveller. With some short Remarks on the Air, Soil, Productions, Trade, Manufactures at several Places, occasionally interspersed. By Edward Wright, Esq; illustrated with 40 curious Drawings, design'd upon the Spot by the Author, and engrav'd on Copper by the best Hands.

Printed for Messieurs Ward and Wicksteed in the Inner Temple Lane.

* * *

Now in the Press, and will speedily be published,

A Compendious Alphabetical Dictionary of the antient Fabulous History, compil'd for the more easy understanding of the Poets, as well as the Designs in Paintings and Statues.

Done from the French of the Learned Sieur P. Chompre, in such a Manner not only as to serve for an Exercise Book for Latin and French Schools; but also for a Pocket Companion for young Gentlemen and Ladies who attend Theatrical Entertainments.

Printed for L. Gilliver at Homer's Head and F. Cogan at the Middle-Temple-gate, both in Fleet-street.

* * *

Just publish'd,

THE Female Parson; or, Beau in the Sudds. An Opera, as it is acted at the New Theatre in the Hay-market. By Mr. Charles Coffey, Author of the Beggar's Wedding.

Printed for Fran. Cogan, at the Middle-Temple-gate in Fleet-street, and Lawton Gillver over against St. Dunstan's Church. Price one Shilling.

* * *

This Day is published,

THE Nurse's Guide; or, a right Method of bringing up young Children. To which is added, An Essay on preserving Health and Long Life, with a Treatise on the Gout.

By an eminent Physician

Printed for John Brotherton at the Bible in Cornhill, and Lawton Gilliver at Homer's Head in Fleet-street.

Where may be had,

A General System of Hydrostaticks and Hydraulicks, philosophical and practical. An Enquiry in the Original and Rise of Springs: Draughts and Descriptions of the best Engines for distributing Water for the supply of Country Seats, Cities, &c. illustrated and explained by 60 copper Cuts. Done by the best Hands. In 2 Vols. in 4to. By Mr. Switzer.

* * *

Just published,

PROPOSALS for Printing by Subscription, a beautiful and correction Edition of ROBERTI STEPHANI Thesaurus Lingue Latinæ. Compared with the best Editions of the Classics, the References adjusted and supplied by J. MARTYN, F.R.S., and the whole corrected and revised from the Press by R. RUSSEL, M.A.

The great Usefulness of this Work having render'd it scarce (tho' it has passed four Impressions) that the best Edition is now sold for at least sixteen Pounds, it is presumed that the Re-printing of it, with these Improvements, will be very acceptable to all the Learned in Europe.

This Work is to be printed from the last Edition (printed at Lyons, containing 653 Sheets, divided into four Tomes) and will be rendered much more useful, by citing not only the Books but Chapters of the Prose Authors, and even the Lines of the Poets; which being adapted to the improved Editions of the Classics, we doubt not will be as agreeable to the Studious, as laborious to the Editors.

It will be printed in the same Manner, and on as good Paper, as the Specimen annexed to the Proposals.

The Price to Subscribers will be six Guineas a Sett in Sheets; only one to be paid down, two on the Delivery of the first Volume (which will contain about 170 Sheets) and one more for each of the other three Volumes.

Some Copies will be printed on a larger Paper for the Curious, at nine Guineas a Sett in Sheets; two to be paid down, two for the first Volume, two for the second, one for the third, and two for the last.

As soon as 200 are subscribed for, the Work shall be put to Press.

The Names and Titles of the Subscribers will be prefixed to the first Volume.

When the Subscription is closed, the Price will be raised to eight Guineas for the small Paper, and twelve the large.

Receipts for the Subscription-Money are signed by all the Proprietors, which they will pay into the Hands of Francis Child, Esq; Alderman, and return it to the Subscribers by Christmas next, if there is not sufficient Encouragement.

Subscriptions are taken in by the Editors; and J. Ratley, at the Dove in Pater-Noster Row; A. Vandenhoeck, at Virgil's Head, over-against the New Church in the Strand; F. Cogan, at the Middle-Temple-Gate, Fleet-Street; and by the Printers, S. Palmer and J. Huggonson, in Bartholomew-close.

* * *

Books printed and sold by John Brotherton at the Bible in Cornhill.

Life of Oliver Cromwel, 8vo.

Collection of Novels, 12mo, 6 Vol.

D'Ano's Tales of the Fairies, 3 Vol. 12mo.

Free Thoughts on Religion.

Pilgrim's Progress in 8vo, with Cuts, 2 Vol.

Spectators, 8 Vol.

Prideaux Connection, 4 Vol.

Musical Misc. 4 Vol. 8vo.

The Dancing Master, by Mr. John Essex, 4to.

Boyer's Telemachus, 12mo.

Gay's Fables, 8vo.

Gordon's Geog. Gammar.

Boyer's Dictionary in 4to, or 8vo.

Blais's Sermons, 5 Vol. 8vo.

Shakespear's Plays.

Addison's Works, 4 Vol.

Lockyer's Trade to India

Abelard's Letters

Garth's Ovid, 2 Vol.

Plutarch's Lives, 8 Vol.

Don Quixot, 2 Vol.

Guardians, 2 Vol.

Ovid's Epistles

Dryden's Virgil.

* * *

Just published,

TWO Epistles to Mr. Pope concerning the Authors of the Age. And the Merchant; on Trade, Navigation and Peace. Designed to give a new but just Idea, of the Pindaric Ode, and to shew the Scripture Style of the Prophets, highly proper for it. Dedicated to the Duke of Chandos.

Both by the Author of the Universal Passion.

Printed for Lawton Gilliver at Homer's Head against St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet-street.

* * *

This Day is published,

A Compleat History of the ancient Amphitheatres. More particularly regarding the Architecture of those Buildings, and in particular that of Verona. By the Marquis Scipio Massei. Made Ennglish from the Italian Original, by Alexander Gordon, A.M. adorned with Sculptures. Also some Account of this learned Work. Which contains likewise, I. A succinct Account of Gladiators, and Gladiatory-Shews; with their Origin and Progress. II. Of Inscriptions relating to Amphitheatres. III. The Manner of Baking wild Beasts among the Ancients. IV. Of subterraneous Conduits, and other Aquæducts. V. A Detection of the Errors of Lipsius, Fontane, and others, who have written upon that Subject. VI. The Destroyers of ancient Monuments exposed; especially some under the Pontificate of the late Pope Benedict XIII. VII. An Account of genuine Medals; and a Description of the most remarkable Structures of the Ancients. Printed for Harmon Noorthouck, in the Great Piazza Covent-garden. Price 6s.

* * *

On the 12th of June next will be published,

NUMB. IV. (for the Month of June) of the

General History of Printing,

by S. Palmer, Printer.

* * *

This Day is Published,

[Price Four Pence.]

A General History of Executions, Numb. III

(To be continued.)

BEING a full Account of the four four following Malefactors executed at Tyburn, May 12, 1730, viz. Abraham Israel, a Jew, and David Aubert, a Swiss, for robbing their Masters. Thomas Williams, for House-breaking. James Dalton, the audacious Street-robber, House-breaker, Foot-pad, Pick-pocket, &c. With an ample Relation of his Life and Adventures, his Pranks, Thefts, and Robberies, both by Sea and Land, abroad and at home, during the Space of above twenty Years, from ten Years of Age to his Death. Also of Hugh Houghton, condemned for robbing the Bristol-Mail, who hang'd himself in Newgate, with his Handkerchief and Belt. Printed by R. Newton, at St. John's-Gate, and sold by the Booksellers in Town and Country.

Where may be had, Price 4d each,

Numb. I. containing the Life of Everett, a noted Highwayman, of Goodburn, a Poet, and of two other Malefactors.

Numb. II. containing an Account of five Malefactors, and a Description of a large Gang of Thieves and Cheats, which infest at Times all parts of the Kingdom; of great Use to Officers of Parishes, and private Persons, for guarding against and detecting the said Rogues.

Note, This Work meeting with Encouragement will be continued every Sessions, and the Numbers regularly published soon after the execution, and will contain an Account of the Criminals executed and transported throughout England, in order to make a compleat Volume at the Year's End, when a general Index will be given for that Purpose.

* * *

Just published,

AN Anatomical and Mechanical Essay on the whole Animal Oeconomy in one View: wherein will be shewn the most wonderful Conduct of Nature, in all the Phænomena attending Human Bodies, with many curious subjects not commonly treated of. Necessary for all Lovers of Knowledge, particularly young Students in Anatomy, Physick and Surgery. With an Alphabetical Catalogue of Authors Names referred to on several Occasions in the foregoing Treatise.

By JOHN COOK, Student in Physick, and late of the College of Edinburgh.

Printed for W. Meadows at the Angel in Cornhil.

* * *

This Day is Publish'd

THE LIFE of the Right Rev. Dr. White Kennett, late Lord Biship of Peterborough; with several original Letters of the late Archibishop of Canterbury, Dr. Tennison; the late Earl of Sunderland; Bishop Kennett, &c. and some curious original Papers and Records, never before published. And also

The Foreigner's Guide: Or, a necessary and instructive Companion, both for the Foreigner and Native, in their Tour through the Cities of London and Westminster. Givin,

1st. A general Description of these two Cities, with an Account of their respective Government.

2dly. A Description of the Royal Palaces, Noblemens Houses, publick Buildings, Churches, Streets, Squares, and the most remarkable Places in and near the famous Metropolis: With an Account of the Inns of Court, Royal Society, publick Walks, Diversions, remarkable Days, Court Days, Post Days. And,

3dly. A Description of the several villages in the Neighbourhood; as Chelsea, Kensington, Richmond, Greenwich, Woolwich, Hampstead; and also others more remote, viz. Hampton-Court, Windsor, Oxford, Cambridge, Blenheim, New-Market Horse Races, Epson, Tunbridge, Bath. And,

4thly. An Account of the Rates of Coaches, Watermen; and also the Rates of Post Horses; with the Roads to Dover and Harwich.

Very useful and entertaining both to Foreigner and Native, and done into English and French.

Where may be had,

LOVE LETTERS on all Occasions, lately passed between Persons of Distinction. Collected by Mrs. Eliza. Haywood,

Pleasure with Sorrow, Peace with War allay'd,

Liberty fetter'd, Hope by Fear dismay'd;

Imbitter'd Honey, Earnest mix'd with Play,

Are, Love! the Emblems of thy sov'reign Sway.

Printed for, and sold by Francis Cogan, at the Middle Temple Gate in Fleet-street.

* * *

LONDON: Printed for Capt. Gulliver and F. Cogan near the Temple, Mr. Jackson in Pall-Mall, and J. Brotherton near the Exchange, and Sold by J. Roberts in Warwick-Lane, where Letters and Advertisements, &c. are taken in. [Price Two Pence.]

