The Grub-street Journal — January 22nd, 1730

Exported from Wikisource on May 11, 2026

Lightly corrected.

* * *

Numb. III.

The Grub-street Journal.

* * *

Thursday, JANUARY 22. 1730.

* * *

Tros, Rutulusve fuat, nullo discrimine habebo.

Virg. Æn. X.

* * *

Extracted from the Journals of the SOCIETY,

Wednesday, January 21, 1730.

Mr. Quidnunc in the Chair.

A NEW Dramatick Pantomime Opera, entitled Perseus and Andromeda, was read to the great Satisfaction of all the Members present.

A Motion was made, that Instructions might be given to the Secretary, to let the former part of the Journal be frequently employed on Political Dissertations; as being a more agreeable Subject to the generality of readers, than matters of Literature. This Motion was seconded by Mr. Noodle, who desired, that further Instructions might be given, to take particular care to vindicate every step taken by the Gentlemen in the administration. He added, that it would not only tend to the Honour of the Society, to give such publick proofs of their Loyalty and Zeal; but would also probably procure a comfortable Subsistence for many of the members, who at present enjoy no great affluence of Fortune. This was vehemently opposed by Mr. Numskull, who told him that he talked like an Ass; for no Papers sold so well as those which were filled with invectives against the Ministry; and that for his part he scorned any advantages that might arise from flattering men in power. Mr. Noodle reply'd with some warmth, that he was a fool and a blockhead, and took up the Fire-shovel to strike him. Mr. Numskull was not behind hand with the bellows: and a terrible fray had immediately ensued, if the Chairman had not called them to order.

Silence being with great difficulty obtained, the Chairman, having summ'd up the substance of the debate, was pleased to declare his opinion in the following manner;

Gentlemen,

It is impossible for any man of sense to deny, that political Controversies have been always so generally judged to belong to this Society, that very few have engaged in them, who were not members of it. The Backs and Ears of many of you will be a lasting testimony of your sufferings in the glorious cause of writing. But tho' it is certain, that these Honours of right belong to you in your private capacities: yet I cannot persuade my self, that we have any claim to them as a Body. The Unanimity which ought to appear in a Paper published by our joint consent, would be destroy'd by entring on a subject, which, as this day's debate has shewn, cannot be handled without great heats and animosities. For my own part, I have endeavoured hitherto, in that share of our Journal, which you have committed to me, to steer evenly between the two parties, and I hope, I have not yet given offence to either; and if I should hereafter do it, I assure you it will proceed from mistake, not from design. As for the first part of our paper, which we have committed to the learned Mr. Bavius, I am of opinion that we ought to leave the matter wholly to him, who, I dare say, chooses rather to confine himself to subjects of Literature, than to engage in any party squabbles. But as a Motion has been made, I am oblig'd to put the Question to you, Whether any Instructions shall be given to the Secretary to engage in Political Controversies.

The Question being put accordingly, it was carried in the negative by a great Majority.

A Letter from an unknown hand, containing an Essay on Miltonic Verse, was read, and ordered to be printed in such manner as the Secretary should judge most convenient.

To the learned Mr. Bavius, Secretary of the Grub-street Society.

Duck-lane, Jan. 19, 1730.

SIR,

THE obligations of the learned World to your Society are greatly augmented by the generous care, which they have shewn for the publick, in sending abroad their Journal. What may we not expect from a Paper which is published with the joint consent of so illustrious a body! Your own learned Remarks on the incomparable Ode of our Laureat, have given a specimen of the justness and accuracy of your Criticisms. In your Introduction you promised the publication of such Dissertations as should receive the approbation of your Society. Happy shall I be, if this Letter, which I design as an Essay an Miltonic Verse, may be approved by so learned an Assembly.

Before I enter on the subject of this Essay, I shall beg leave to observe, that Poets may be divided into two Classes; the Parnassians, and the Grubæans. Of the former were most of the Antients, and of the latter are most of the Moderns. That beautiful way of writing, which we call Imitation, has been managed after a different manner by these two Classes of writers. The Parnassians were strangers to the close way of Imitation, wherein consists its greatest beauty; and one of their Chiefs calls such Imitators fervum pecus. Their way of Imitating was very loose, as will appear by comparing Virgil's Georgicks with those of Hesiod, whom he openly professed to imitate;

Ascræumque cano Romana per oppida carmen.

But a true Grubæan Imitator should follow his Author step by step, quite contrary to that erroneous rule of Horace;

Nec verbum verbo curabis reddere fidus

Interpres.

By this means a Poem of the Parnassian kind in one Language may be translated into a Grubæans Poem in another. By this means a Parnassian Tragedy of Corneille has been made to shine with true Grubæan honour on the British Stage, by an eminent Dramatick Writer of your Society. This Rule indeed chiefly regards Translations: for should an Imitator follow a Poem written in the same Language with the Exactness I propose, he would rather transcribe than imitate. In this case then, he may choose a subject different from that of his Author, and so his very words may be made use of. Thus although the words may be Parnassian, yet, the sence being Grubæans, the whole Poem will be so too, but much more so, if he can pick out such words as are Grubæan also.

The rest of this learned discourse will be printed in another Journal.

* * *

LONDON.

Thursday, Jan. 15. Yesterday one Ben. Keys was committed to Newgate, being accused upon Oath of having confessed himself the person, who, in company with John Johnson, did shoot 3 slugs into the body of John Newton, some time since, near Kingsland, of which he died; and that on Monday Morning last he did rob Sam. Tyssen, Esq; on the highway, and at the same time shot his coach-man through the arm; and also that he did threaten to kill the said Mr. Tyssen before Sunday next. Courant, Daily Post, and the 4 Evening Posts.

The Daily Journal has Heys instead of Keys; and the Morning Post Richard instead of John Johnson.

The same Morning several people were robbed between Islington and Holloway, particularly, Mr. Smith a butcher, stript and robb'd of his horse; Mr. White a Carrier robb'd of his horse; and a woman coming to Town with fowls, &c. robb'd, and us'd in a barbarous manner. Courant, Evening Post, St. James, and Whitehall Evening.

The same Morning about 7, a Higgler coming from Hampstead was stopped near the half-way house by 3 foot-pads, who took from him his horse, and all his goods, and money. Morn. Post and Even. Post.

The same day the Lord Bishop of St. Asaph was introduced into the house of Peers. Courant and S. James Even. As were likewise the Dukes of Beaufort, Bedford, and Devonshire, Earl of Sunderland, Lord Kerr, and Lord Harrington. Daily Post and Even. Post. The Lord Lovelace being come of age took his seat there on Tuesday. Even. Post, S. James's Ev.

Yesterday his Majesty was chosen Governor, Sir Robert Sutton, Sub-governor, and Sir Bibye Lake, Deputy-Governor, of the Royal African Company for the Year ensuing. Daily Jour. Even. Post.

On Tuesday great numbers of printed copies of a Libel against a Minister of State, were dropt in S. James's Park, as the King was passing to Westminister; and in many parts of the Town. Even. Post and Lond. Even.

Last Sunday Night 2 Gentlemen were robb'd by 2 highwaymen, between Bow and Mile-end, of 8 l. and their Watches. St. James's, and Whitehall Evening.

Of late frequent robberies have been committed about Greenwich, Blackheath, and Lewisham, by Rogues that have dropt on Blackheath several Notes, signifying, that whoever they find travelling without 10s. shall not only be stript, but also cudgel'd very heartily. Ev. Post, S. James's Ev.

On Monday Night about 11 Mr. Host of Petty-France was knock'd down and robb'd by 3 Street-robbers, at the end of Scotland yard, Charing cross. St. James's and Whitehall Evening.

On Tuesday Night the Tunbridge Carrier was shot by some rogues, a little on this side Lewisham; whither being carried he died of his wounds yesterday morning. Evening Post, Whitehall Evening. The London Evening says his name was Johnson.

Yesterday the house of Lords waited on his Majesty with their Address, to which he was pleased to return a most gracious answer, Courant, &c.

Friday, Jan. 16. Yesterday the house of Commons waited on his Majesty at St. James's with their Address. Post Boy, &c. To which his Majesty gave a most gracious answer. Daily Journal, Morning Post.

This day the Sessions begin at the Old Bailey, where above 100 Prisoners are to be try'd. Courant, Daily Post.

The first general Seal in Chancery before Hilary Term began on Tuesday, and ended yesterday morning. Courant.

We hear the Candidates for a Representative of Winchester, in the room of the Lord William Pawlet, deceased, are ——— Powlet, Esq; and John Hand, Esq; Post Boy.

We hear the Earl of Islay will be made a Knight of the most noble order of St. Andrew, in the room of the late Earl of Portmore. Ibid.

The Earl of Portmore is to be made a Knight Companion of the most antient order of the Thistle, in the room of the late E. his father. D. Post.

Last tuesday night ——— Forward, Esq; was robb'd in St. Paul's Churchyard of a purse and some guineas. Post Boy.

The same night one Mr. Moore crossing Blackheath was robb'd by one foot-pad of a silver watch and some money. Daily Journal.

Last wednesday night between 11 and 12 a Gentleman in a Chair was robb'd of his watch, 9 guineas, and 13 s. opposite to the King's Saddler's at Charing-cross. Daily Journal.

Yesterday Edward Richley was committed to New Prison for Sodomy: and we hear he will be admitted an evidence against several of his Confederates. Ibid.

Saturday, Jan. 17. The rev. Dr. Croxal is to preach before the house of Commons on the 30th instant. Courant.

Thursday Last, at the meeting of Westminster Scholars, they were honoured with the presence of his Royal Highness the Duke, both in the morning at the Exercises in prose and verse upon the subject of private and public education; and in the evening at the Play, which was the Amphitryo of Plautus. Post Boy, Daily Journal.

Instead of the meeting of Westminster Scholars, read the anniversary Feast of the Noblemen and Gentlemen educated at Westminster School, as is is in the Daily Post.

They write from Portsmouth, that on the 10th a Duel was fought there betwixt the Surgeon's Mate and the Master's Mate of the Greyhound; in which the latter, named Reynolds, received several wounds, the last of which went in at his right side, and terminated at the back bone, and proved mortal, so that he expired in about an hour. Applebee's and Weekly Journal.

They write from Carmarthen, that a dead infant having been found in a gutter at Sir Tho. Stepney's house near that town, upon examination a servant girl of about 15 owned it to be hers, and declared the father of it, an elderly man; who together with the girl was committed by Sir Tho. to Carmarthen goal. Applebee's Journal and Weekly Medley.

One night Last week 2 young Gentlemen in liquor, having drank a bowl of punch at Edward's Chocolate-house, in Drury-lane Pay-house passage, were going away without paying for it; when the woman of the house telling them, she hoped they would pay their reckoning, one of them in a reprobate manner swore she should dye that minute, and forcing her to kneel down, with his drawn sword pushed at her breast, but luckily it went only through her clothes, and stuck in the wainscot. Upon this several persons entered the room, and securing them, carried them to Covent-garden round-house; where one of them privately with a pen-knife stabbed one of the watch-men in the breast in a desperate manner, but not mortal. They were then sent to the Gate-house; but were since admitted to bail. British Journal.

A Commission of charitable uses has passed the great Seal, directed to many of the Nobility and Gentry of the County of Berks, and that part of Wilts which lies about Twiford; and great complaints being made of continual abuses in the Lady Winchcombe's, and Mr. Polehampton's charities at Twiford, we hear the Commissioners intend first to proceed to an enquiry there, and afterwards through the rest of the County. Applebee's, Weekly, Country, and Fog's Journals.

Tuesday evening the Corpse of Sir Rog. Hill, Bart. and the Corpse of his Son, who died in a few Hours after him, were interred at Denhan in Bucks, in two coffins, and one grave. Fog's Journal.

Monday, Jan. 19. Last saturday between 6 and 7 in the evening, a fire broke out in the middle of Mr. Winniat's shop, a distiller, at the corner of Feather-stone buildings, Holborn, occasioned by a lighted candle falling into a cask of hot Spirits, which immediately burst, and ran about the shop. Mr. Winniat, who was in his Compting house just withinthe shop-door, went out without damage. The Apprentice was backwards with one Mrs. Benwen, for whom he was weighing tobacco: and a man servant was attending the still. This Last person seeing it flame violently, and thinking it impossible to get out forwards, broke open the back-door. But while he was doing this, Mrs. Benwen attempted to go through the shop and flames, and fell down upon her breast in the middle of them; whereupon he dragged her out, and threw her, and then himself, into the kennel, to extinguish the flames that were about them; but were both burnt very miserably. The flames in a few minutes catched hold of the stairs, which hindered the maid, who (with Mr. Winniat's son, about 6 years of age) was in the kitchen up one pair of stairs, from getting out. The fire burnt till 8. Mrs. Benwen died yesterday morning and the Apprentice has not been heard of. Post Boy.

The Courant: and Daily Post instead of Winniat have Whiniard; the Daily Journal Winard, and Morning Post Wynett: and the Daily Post instead of Benwen, Benwell.

This day his Royal Highness Prince Frederick's Birth day was designed to have been celebrated: but an order was on saturday sent to all the publick offices, to keep it on the 20th, he being born after 12 at night. Daily Post.

To-morrow, the 20th, being the Birth-day of his Royal Highness the Prince of Wales, (which, by mistake, has been observed for some time past as on this day) preparations are making by the Loyalists of this City to celebrate the same in a suitable manner. Daily Journal, Flying Post.

Tuesday, Jan. 20. The right rev. Dr. Will. Bradshaw, L. Bishop of Bristol, is to preach before the house of Lords the 20th. Post Boy.

Last Thursday the rev. Dr. Bigg was, by the Fellows of New College in Oxford, elected Warden of St. Mary's College near Winchester, in the room of Dr. Dobson, deceased; and on monday was presented for confirmation in his office to the Bishop of Winchester, the Victor, at Chelsea. Daily Post.

On sunday Last died in Strutton Grounds, Westminster, the Son, of which the late Lady Abergavenny was delivered a few days before her death. Ibid.

This is the very Child that was said to have died above a month ago; and was buried in the same grave with his mother, by several Newswriters.

Yesterday part of the bodies of Mr. Winniat's child, servant maid, and apprentice were found in the ruins of his house. Daily Journal.

Yesterday the Lord Landsdown, who has been some years in France, was introduced into the House of Peers, and took the oaths accordingly. Courant.

Last wednesday a motion was made before the Lord Chancellor, in favour of Alderman Child, to set aside the injunction& that Col. Chartres had obtained against him, for his paying 5000 l. for the Col. which, he says, was upon a forged note; and the same was ordered to be set aside accordingly. Post Boy, Jan. 19.

We hear from Dover, Jan. 16. That Col. Chartres was lately at Dunkirk, where, having some disputes with Officers, they had detained his coach and horses. Daily Journal, Jan. 20.

On saturday morning her Grace the Dutchess of Kent was delivered of a daughter. Evening Post.

Orders have been lately sent to the Tower, to repair the several Apartments. where State prisoners are usually confined. St. James's Even.

Last night the Sessions ended at the Old Bailey on Middlesex tide, when 6 persons received sentence of death, Tho. and Rich. Rogers, Henry Nowland, Tho. Westwood, and John Everett for the Highway, and Williamson Goodburn for a robbery at the Bell-Inn in the Strand. Whitehall Even.

Wednesday, Jan. 21. Last night the Sessions ended on the London side; but none received sentence of death. Courant.

The style of Treaties being generally long and intricate, it was thought proper so give a very short and intelligible Abstract of the late Treaty, in this Paper.

Abstract of the Treaty of Peace, &c. between Great Britain, France, and Spain, concluded at Seville, Nov. 9. N. S. 1729.

I. All former Treaties shall be effectually renewed and confirmed, in all Points not derogatory from the present Treaty, in as ample manner, as if they were here inserted word for word.

II. Their three Majesties guaranty reciprocally their Kingdoms, States, and Dominions, in what part of the world soever situate, and the rights of their commerce. So that they, or any one of them, being attacked or molested, by any Power whatever, they oblige themselves, in case their offices be no sufficient to procure satisfaction, to furnish each of them 8000 foot, and 4000 horse. The Party attacked may chuse, instead of troops, ships of war or transports, or even subsidies in money, in proportion to the expence of troops; in the valuation of which, 1000 foot shall be computed at 30,000 Florins, and 1000 horse at 30,000 Florins Dutch, per month. Their Majesties are to continue the said succours as long as the Trouble shall subsist; and, in case it shall be found necessary, shall mutually succour each other with all their Forces, and even declare war against the Aggressor.

III. It having been alledged, that in the Treaties concluded at Vienna, between the Emperor and the King of Spain, in 1725, there were divers clauses infringing several Treaties in which commerce may be concerned, antecedent to 1725; his Catholic Majesty declares, that he never meant to grant, nor will suffer to subsist, any privilege contrary to the Treaties above confirmed.

IV. All necessary orders shall be dispatched without delay, for the reestablishment of the Commerce of the English and French Nations, as well in Europe as in the Indies, on the foot of the Treaties and Conventions antecedent to the year 1725.

V. His Catholic Majesty shall forthwith cause reparation to be made for the damages suffered in Europe, since the time prescribed by the Preliminaries for the cessation of hostilities; and for the damages suffered in America, since the arrival of his orders at Cartagena, June 11/22, 1728. Their Britannic and most Christian Majesties, if there be like cases, shall cause reparation to be made in like manner.

VI. Commissaries shall be nominated on the part of their Britannic and Catholic Majesties, who shall assemble at the Court of Spain, within 4 months after the exchange of the Ratifications, to examine and decide concerning the damages suffered; concerning the abuses of Commerce, both in the Indies and in Europe; and concerning all other Pretensions in America, with respect to the limits, or otherwise. They shall likewise discuss and decide the Pretensions which his Catholic Majesty may have by the Treaty of 1721, for the restitution of the Ships taken by the English Fleet in 1718. And their decisions shall be punctually executed within 6 months after they have made their Report.

VII. Commissaries shall be likewise nominated by his most Christian and his Catholic Majesty, to examine all grievances whatsoever.

VIII. The Commissaries shall finish their Commission within 3 years after the signing of the Treaty.

IX. The introducing of garrisons of 6000 Spanish Troops into Leghorn, Porto Ferraro, Parma, and Placentia, shall be effectuated without loss of time, for the better securing the immediate succession of those States, in favour of the Infante Don Carlos.

X. The contracting Powers shall forthwith use all applications, consistent with the dignity and quiet of the Great Duke of Tuscany, and the Duke of Parma, to the end the garrisons may be received without opposition. And the said garrisons shall take an oath to the present Possessors, to defend them in every thing not contrary to the right of succession; and shall not meddle, directly or indirectly, in political, œconomical, or civil Affairs.

XI. His Catholic Majesty promises for himself and his successors, that as soon as the Infante Don Carlos, or his Son, or whoever succeeds to his rights, shall be the quiet Possessor of those States, in safety from all just grounds of fear; he will cause to be withdrawn from those places the Troops which shall be his own, and not belonging to Don Carlos, or his Heirs.

XII. The contracting Powers ingage to establish and maintain Don Carlos and his Heirs in the possession of Tuscany, Parma, and Placentia, against any Power whatever; declaring themselves Guarantees for ever of the Right, Possession, &c. of the most serene Infante, and of his successors, to the said States.

XIII. When the other Regulations concerning the said garrisons shall be settled, by an agreement between his Catholick Majesty, and the Great Duke and the Duke of Parma, their Britannic and most Christian Majesties promise to ratify and guaranty the same.

XIV. The States General, and such other Powers as shall be agreed on, shall be invited to come into the Treaty.

In two separate Articles it is agreed, that, under the general denomination of the Treaties and Conventions antecedent to 1725, mentioned in the IVth Article, are comprehended all Treaties of peace and commerce, from that of Utrecht 1713, to this present time. In consequence of which, all Seizures, Confiscations and Detentions, either by Great Britain or Spain, shall be immediately restored; and the Ship Prince Frederick is particularly mentioned to be restored, with her Cargo, to its full value.

* * *

FOREIGN NEWS.

Thursday, Jan. 15. Yesterday arrived the Mails due from Flanders and Holland.

Vienna, Jan. 7. N.S. On the 15th, the Emperor received an Express from the Count de Kinski, his Minister at the Court of England, who writes, that his Britannic Majesty charged him to assure his Imperial Majesty of his entire friendship; and inclosed in his letter a Copy of the articles of the Treaty of Seville. Soon after, the Earl of Waldegrave delivered to the Emperor two Letters written with the King of Great Britain's own hand wherein, we are told, his Britannic Majesty declares, that it was not his intention to procure the introduction of the Infante Don Carlos by force of arms, but by pacifick and friendly methods. The Emperor's Ambassador in France has written to Court, that the Cardinal de Fleuri had given him the same assurances. This News has greatly abated the talk of an approaching rupture in Italy. Daily Courant, Post Boy, Flying Post, Daily Post, Journal, Morning Post, and 4 Evening Posts.

Besides the Regiments formerly mentioned, in a readiness to march to Italy, the following have since received the same orders; viz. those of foot of John Daun and Arag, and the Hussars of Spleni and Este. Courant, Evening Post, Whitehall Evening.

Instead of Este it is Esteli in the Daily Post, St. James's Evening, and London Evening. And instead of John Daun and Arag, the Post Boy has Young Daun and Harrach; and instead of Este, Dessoots. The Morning Post has likewise Young Daun; but in stead of Dessoots, Ethesi. Some of the Translators, it is humbly conjectured, read Jean Daun, and others Jeun Daun.

Cleves, Jan. 18. We have advice, that the differences between the King's of Great Britain and Prussia are at length amicably adjusted. Daily Post.

Friday, Jan 16. Hague, Jan. 20. N.S. 'The Treaty of Seville, by a private Article, is to be put in execution by the 9th of May; so that the Emperor has but a short time to declare himself upon the principal business of the said Treaty, viz. the transporting 6000 Spanish Troops to Italy. The Emperor thinks it hard and dishonourable to have conditions forced upon him: nevertheless he has promised by his Minister to give a definitive answer in a short time. The Spaniards are preparing with all diligence an embarkation of 50 battalions of Infantry, and 50 squadrons of Cavalry, making in all 35,000 men, for that Expedition; which are to be joined by 6 Ships of war, and 6 galleys, with 3000 Land forces of the Crown of France, beside the proper Quotas from the rest of the Allies.

'Another private Article there is, which will prove very favourable to the trade of the S. S. Company in England; which is at liberty to supply the Fair in New Spain with all European commodities, of which the usual Tax will be taken off, and they undertake to supply the Markets at 10 per cent. cheaper than the common prices; the goods to be delivered per advance, and the money to be paid at 4 payments. This will at least supplant the English Adventurers in the Galleons, and perhaps give them the start of their neighbours in that Commerce. One thing is remarkable, that there is not any mention of Gibraltar or Port-Mahon, either in the public Articles, or private.' Post Boy.

Madrid, Jan. 3. The Books are opened at Cadiz for lading the Galleons, which are to sail by the 10th of March. Daily Journal.

Leghorn, Jan. 7. The White Lamb, a Dutch Ship, John Ymans, arrived here 5 days ago from Smyrna with Wheat. In her passage she was met by an Algerine Cruiser, which took her, on pretence that her pass was expired. They put 12 Turks on board, and took out of her 4 Dutch-men; but as they were going for Algier, a storm took them off Tunis, by which being separated, the Dutch rose, killed 6 Algerines, seised on the Arms, and brought their Ship safe into this Port. Ibid. Evening Post, and Whitehal Evening, Jan. 17.

Saturday, Jan. 17. Zurich, Jan. 11. N.S. The Deputies of this Canton and that of Bern, who are at Coire, have again made pressing instances to be recalled: but in regard the affairs of the Grisons seem to be in a very dangerous situation, it has been resolved to continue them there for some time longer. Courant.

Francfort, Jan. 15. A great many Recruits for the Imperial Regiments have been lately sent from hence. Daily Post.

Cologn, Jan. 17. The Recruits for the Troops of the King of Prussia are continued with great success at Dentz and Aix la Chappelle. Ibid.

Dresden, Jan. 17. The young Prince of Sax-Neustadt, who is in great favour with his Polish Majesty, as well as with the Emperor, has obtained from the King the territory of Neustadt, with all its revenues, besides his pension. Morning Post.

Monday, Jan. 19. Yesterday arrived the Mail due from Holland.

Vienna, Jan. 11. N.S. The dispatches brought by an Express that arrived the other day from Paris, occasioned some Alterations to be made in those delivered to the Emperor's Cabinet Courier Mortagne, for Count Coninseck, our Ambassador in Spain. Two days ago 1510 Recruits were sent hence for the Imperial Troops in Italy; and, 'tis said, several more Regiments will be ordered to march thither, besides those already named. The Pope's Nuncio, we understand, takes a great deal of pains to hinder, or at least to suspend the march of so great a number of Troops to Italy, till his Holiness has received an answer to the Letters he has written to the King and Queen of Spain, to prevent a war in Italy, wherein he proposes a Scheme for preserving the public tranquility. Courant, Morning Post.

The Post Boy says, That the Courier had received his dispatches a day or two, and was taking horse for Spain, when an Express came in from Paris, and stopt him, 'till the Court had made some alterations in his dispatches.

Amsterdam, Jan. 24. They write from Brunswick, that the Ministers of the Princes Mediators, to facilitate the exchange of the Prussians and Hanoverians, had proposed to begin with the subaltern officers, and to go on with the Soldiers afterwards; but that this Proposal was not acccepted by the Court of Hanover. Courant, Daily Post.

Hague, Jan. 20. This day the deputies of the Province of Utrecht brought to the States General their Ratification of the Accession to the Treaty of Seville: and that of Groninghen only being now wanting, their High Mightinesses will be able to conclude this affair by the middle of next week. Ibid. and Daily Journal.

Vienna, Jan. 11. Letters from Constantinople say they had received advice, that the Turks had gained a compleat Victory over the Rebels of Egypt, killed 50,000 upon the spot, put all the rest to flight, and taken all their baggage. Post Boy, Morning Post.

Basil, Jan. 15. They write from Coire, that the Emperor has demanded passage for 2,000 men thro' the Country of the Grisons. Ibid. Post Boy.

Hague, Jan. 24. Our Letters from Florence advise, that notwithstanding the advantageous offers made by the Minister of Spain to the Great Duke and to the Duke of Parma, these 2 Princes were firmly resolved to oppose the passage of the Spanish Troops; in which it was said they would be assisted by the Holy See, the King of Sardinia, and another Potentate. They add, that orders were given for the raising of 10,000 foot, and for the buying of 6000 horses, Daily Post.

Tuesday, Jan. 20. Dresden, Jan. 9. N.S. On the 4th M. de Reiski, lately Secretary at war, was carried to the place of Execution, to be shot to death; but was met there by an officer, who told him, the King had been graciously pleased to pardon him, and to change his sentence into perpetual imprisonment; and the same day he was carried to Zonnestein. Courant

Last night arrived the Mail due from France.

Seville, Jan. 5. On the 1st the Ministers of Great Britain, France, and Spain, made here the exchange of the Ratifications of the Treaty concluded here. Courant, Daily Journal.

Wednesday, Jan. 21. Hague, Jan. 13. N.S. The consent of the Province of Groninghen to the Accession to the Treaty of Seville was transmitted hither Yesterday.

* * *

On Wednesday Stocks were

South Sea 105 1 half. Ditto Annuities 105 7 8ths a 6. India 184 3 4ths. Bank 139 3 4ths a 40. 3 per Cent. 95 1 half. African 46. York Buildings 19 1 4th. Royal Ex. 86 1 4th. London Ass. 11 3 4ths a 7 8ths. S. S. Bond, 3 l. 17 s. Pr. India Bond, 4 l. 17 s. Pr.

* * *

ADVERTISEMENTS.

This Day is published,

A New Edition of the Art of Politicks, in Imitation of HORACE's Art of Poetry, with a curious Frontispiece. Risum teneatis Amici. Printed for Lawton Gilliver, at Homer's Head against St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet-street. Where may be had, A new and beautiful Edition of the DUNCIAD, in 8vo. with additional NOTES and EPIGRAMS. And speedily will be published, M. Hiernoymi VIDÆ OPERA OMNIA POETICA, quibus adjicitur ejusdem De dignitate Rei-publicæ Dialogus: ex recensione R. Russel, A. M. 2 Tom. 12mo.

* * *

This Day is Publish'd,

Arrian's History of Alexander's Expeditions.

Translated from the Greek with Notes Historical, Geographical, and Critical. By Mr. Rooke. In two Vol.

To which is prefix'd,

M. Le Clerc's Criticism upon Quintus Curtius, and some Remarks upon Mr. Perizonius's Vindication of that Author.

Printed for T Worral, at the Judges Head in Fleet-street; J. Gray, at the Cross Keys in the Poultry; L. Gilliver, at Homer's Head in Fleet-street; and R. Willock, at Sir Isaac Newton's Head in Cornhil.

* * *

BOOKS Printed and Sold by John Brotherton at the Bible in Cornhil.

Life of Oliver Cromwel, 8vo.

Collection of Novels, 12°. 6 Vol.

D'Anois Tales of the Fairies, 3 V. 12°.

Free Thoughts on Religion.

Pilgrim's Progress in 8°. with Cuts, 2 Vol.

Spectators, 8 Vol.

Prideaux Connection, 4 Vol.

Musical Miscell. 4 Vol. 8°.

The Dancing Master, by Mr. John Essex, 4°.

Boyer's Telemachus, 12°.

Gay's Fables, 8°.

Gordon's Geog. Grammar.

Boyer's Dictionary in 4°. or 8°.

Blais's Sermons, 5 Vol. 8°.

Shakepear's Plays.

Addison's Works, 4 Vol.

* * *

This Day is Publish'd,

A Collection of Tracts on various Subjects. Written by Mr. Tho. Chubb.

Printed for Tho. Cox, at the Lamb under the Royal Exchange.

* * *

WHEREAS there was lately Publish'd in the Daily Journal an Advertisement, insinuating that the Bristol Water, Sold by me was Wrong Water, under a Counterfeit Seal, &c. and not being yet able to learn whether the Hands, which are to it, be Forged or not, I content my self to print Part of Mr. Benjamin Perrot's Last Account, which is as followeth, viz.

Dec. 8, 1729. l. s. d.

To 150 Dozen Quarts.

To paid Filling ditto 10 0 0

To Hallage ditto 1 5 0

The Original Letter is to be seen at my House, the Golden Tea Canister, in Fleet-street near Temple Bar; and as soon as I can learn whether the Names be Real or Forged, I shall set the Matter in a true Light.

N. B. It is a Pleasure to me that Mr. Perrot has been so good to give himself the Trouble of getting me the Bristol Water, because he is a Gentleman of such Worth, Honour, and Fortune, and to well known to the World, that the Truth of any Thing under his Hand will never be doubted.

Henry Eyre.

* * *

LONDON: Printed and Sold by J. Roberts in Warwick-Lane, and at the Pamphlet-Shops of London and Westminster; and also at the Pegasus (vulgarly called the Flying-horse) in Grubstreet, where Advertisements are taken in.

(Price Two Pence.)

