Numb. 23.

The Grub-street Journal.

Thursday, JUNE 11. 1730.


For save or slay, this privilege we claim,
Tho' credit suffers, the reward's the same.
Dispensary, Cant. IV.


The following Letter was written by a reverend Divine to a Lady, giving an account of the imaginary, legal murder of her husband in a medicinal and chirurgical way.

Dear ———

AFTER having so long both heard, and thought, and said so much good of you, it is with vast concern that I find the world, since I came hither, so busy, both in private discourse, and in the public Papers, with your reputation, as tho' you were married, or designed to marry a Person, whose name I am ashamed should blot this Paper; and much more the memory of my dear deceased Friend, and the noble family you are descended from. For my part, as I am perfectly acquainted with the fondness of your heart, as well as of your understanding, I neither have, nor ever will believe such improbable accounts of your conduct, so different from that of your whole life, which has been one continued scene of virtue and prudence. But however, as the wisest and best of Women may, through passion, or inadvertency, be led into fatal mistakes, I think it is my duty, with the utmost deference and regard, to lay some things before you, which will prevent your taking so terrible a step, if your own good sense and virtue have nor, contrary to the malicious reports of the world, sufficiently secured you already.

I shall not touch upon those common topicks of every talker on the subject, the birth, education, the understanding, the character, or Person of that Creature. Your Ladyship is a perfect judge of them all; and I hope (as I ever will) hold them in that utter contempt the world (I mean the sensible world) has placed them in. What I have to urge to you, Dear ——— is of a higher nature, which is, that I have the most violent suspicious circumstances and arguments to prove him guilty of murdering my dear deceased Friend. As I attended my poor unfortunate Relation in all his sickness, I observed and took notice how he was managed by him, tho' I thought not fit, nor indeed was able properly to make it manifest to you, or to the world, till now. From those notes and observations, I can, and will prove on my oath before God and Man, besides several other material particulars, not fit to mention as yet, that the Murderer gave him several plaisters for his left foot, which by their colour and consistence, I do believe, contained mercurial preparation. Whence in all humane probability, his first complaint and sameness proceeded. That these Plasters probably occasioned his strangury, which gave the miscreant an opportunity of sending him that fatal mixture, which he told your ——— was only the cold feeds; which, in all likelihood, hastened on him that dizziness and bleeding at the nose in the House of Commons, which succeeded his lameness. Upon which he bled him largely, having persuaded his Physicians his disorder was apoplectical. And that night having anointed him with some ointment of his own; he gave him pills, which, upon my oath, from several circumstances in his disorder, I believe were opium. That he put into your ——— hands another dose (under pretence the Doctor had ordered them for him) which you unfortunately gave him the next morning; and which you assured me your self, you could hardly wake him so far (he was so stupidly and so senselessly asleep) as to get them taken, to your great surprize. That farther, when I saw my dear Friend at 9 of the clock, I saw him with his eyes fixed in his head, and just in such a stupid drunken way, as one largely dozed with opium would be. That when he came to himself, he and your ——— give me these accounts. That farther, notwithstanding it was evident, that vomits were the nexessariest and fittest expedients; and if proper vomits were faithfully given, they must have worked, yet could he get nothing off his stomac, to the increase of my surprize and jealousy. That at last Physic being ordered, such was administer'd, or in such quantities, that it stirred him very little. And when my poor Friend complained, he had a great heat and drought on him, which is the certain consequence of Opium, I saw the Murderer give him a draught of cold water, which he drank off. And when I cried, Good God! will you stop his Physic's working, and destroy him? he made light of it, and notwithstanding what I said, gave him two glasses more, only mixed with a little claret; which is the very way the Turks and the Persians use, when they take Opium to kill themselves, always taking water with it, to end themselves the faster and sooner. That along with all this to secure every thing taking effect, he was bled most severely at different times, enough to have killed such a man; tho' he earnestly begged against it, and tho; I assured his Physicians (whom this miscreant alarmed with the fears of an apoplex) that bleeding was what he never could bear without sinking under it, and that now it would destroy him, without any other disorder. That between these operations my poor dear Friend walked frequently about the room, leaning on my hand, and telling me, and sometimes all the company, that it amazed him what ailed him. That his head, his reason, his mind, and body were as undisturbed as ever in all his life; except that strange drowsiness which he could not account for, to the astonishment of all that heard him. That farther, when the Physicians consulted on him, and I would fain have been by (which was but reasonable) the Murderer expressly bid me go away, and turned me out of the room; tho' he had told me from the first moment of his illness, that he would certainly dye. That notwithstanding all his management, glisters being ordered by the Doctors, who saw them given, my dear Friend began to purge downwards, and grow better, to that degree that I ran with joy to your ——— with the good news, that he purged between his dozings. That no sooner was the Doctor gone but the Assassin put a glister on the fire, where he held it so long, that, upon my oath, I believe it was almost scalding; which all the world knows, stops all Physic from working. The reason of my believing it was scalding is, that weak and spent as he was with the loss of such quantities of blood, and so many blisters on every part almost about him, (which yet could never raise his blood, it being drained off) yet I saw the very instant he received it, he flew out of the bed, and ran naked about the room, to every one's surprize, crying out with that torment these terrible. words, 'Good God! Good God! can't you let a miserable wretch dye in peace?' At which words I saw, upon my oath, the villain turn away his head, and burn out into laughter. Nay, to crown all, as if enough had not been done, as if it were to see if any blood was left in his body; this merciless Assassin bled him, first in one of the jugular veins; and when he could get no more, he bled him in the other, till that stopped too, and put an end to his life and misery.

I have omitted many important things besides, which tho' probably the law will not consider, when it comes to be tried, as proofs sufficient to reach the Murderer's life, yet, I am confident, will prevent you, dear Madam, from entering into any of the least correspondence with him, much less into one for life. To this good end I lay all this before you, and beseech your assistance, with Lord ———, and your joining in petition the King, to have this dismal villany searched into, and tried with the utmost severity. And farther, that innocent blood may not be unpunished, or, at least, if blood cannot atone for blood, that infamy and disgrace, and the curses and detestation of Mankind, may pursue this Assassin through the earth. My only concern is, dear Madam, least the malice of the world should, tho' ever so causelessly and unjustly, fall on you, as joining in a connivance at his crime. This gives me vast uneasiness indeed. And above all, if through his flatterry or artifices, he should have so far deluded your goodness, and blinded your judgment, as to have had you consented, or actually entered into unavoidable engagements of marrying him. I therefore earnestly beseech your ——— to lay the truth of the matter nakedly and truly before me. For rather than I would contribute to asperse and defame that goodness, virtue, and obliging kindness, which I have so long admired, and been so much obliged to, I would rather suffer the greatest trouble the concealing what I have to say can give. I most solemnly aver to you, I never have, nor by God's blessing will, communicate this matter to any, for two or three days, till I have your deliberate answer and advice in it; having the most inviolable tenderness and regard for you. At the tune time I must beg, dear Madam, the same openness of mind, in what you have to say to me on this; and for my future conduct in it, your happiness and safety shall be my first great care; and that secured, I will leave the rest to God and you. I impatiently wait your answer accordingly; and am, with all respect and honour, and a heart deeply grieved for all your troubles, as well as my own vast loss, dear———

Most affectionate obliged humble servant.


This Letter being read, a debate arose, whether it should be printed. The Gentlemen of the faculty in general opposed it as giving an odious representation of their profession, without any just foundation. They said it was impossible to judge of medicines, &c. by their colour; and of the heat of a glister by the pain a Patient might feel upon the application. That it was impertinent for a Divine to prie into the mysteries of Physic, since they seldom or never concerned themselves with those of Divinity. And that they knew no business a Clergyman had with a sick Person, but only to prepare him for another world, when the Physician had conducted him to the last stage of this.

Dr. T——— objected against the imperfect manner in which this case was represented, and said that abundance of material circumstances had been omitted, as particularly, the Gentleman's name and age, the time and place of his marriage, the borough which he represented, the day of the month and week when first taken, the street in which he lived, and forty more particulars of like nature, as necessary to form a true judgment in cases of Physic, as in those of Law.

To all this it was answered, that the malice. impertinence, or weakness which might appear in this Letter, was rather an argument for the publication of it. That weak objections against persons or things tended to the advantage of that which they opposed. That as this piece had been handed about in a private manner, which had raised an opinion in those who had not seen it, that it contained something extraordinary; the best way would be to give them an opportunity of seeing it, and judging impartially and that probably this tragical history might have the same fortune which other Tragedies have often had; to have been much talked of before they were published, but to have been found upon reading to have nothing at all in them. Upon this, a confideable majority appeared for the publication.


The following Ballad was sent from Dublin, with a surprising article of News. There is one wilful mistake runs through the whole, in calling the Dean The true English Dean: for tho' he may be a true-born Englishman, he is certainly a true Irish Dean, who has thus emulated the fame of a Scotch Colonel. And in all probability he will rise above him; being celebrated by a much better Poet than any of the Epistolary Bards who sung the other.


An excellent new Ballad: Or, The true En———sh E———n to be hang'd for a R―pe.
I.
OUR Brethren of E———nd who love us so dear,
 And in all they do for us so kindly do mean,
(A blessing upon them) have sent us this year,
 For the good of our Church, a true E———h D———n;
  A holier Priest ne'er was wrapt up in Crape:
  The worst you can say, he committed a R―pe.

II.
In his Journey to D―bl―n he lighted at Ch―st―r,
 And there he grew fond of another man's Wife:
Burst into her chamber, and would have caress'd her;
 But she valued her honour much more than her life.
  She bustled, and struggled, and made her escape
  To a room full of Guests, for fear of a R―pe.

III.
The D———n he pursued to recover his Game,
 And now to attack her again he prepares:
But the Company stood in detence of the Dame;
 They cudgell'd, and cust him, and kick'd him down stairs:
  His D———nship was now in a damnable scrape
 And this was no time for committing a R―pe.

IV.
To D―bl―n he comes, to the Bagnio he goes;
 And orders the Landlord to bring him a Whore:
No scruple came on him, his gown to expose;
 'Twas what all his life he had practis'd before:
H::e made himself drunk with the juice of the Grape;
  And got a good Clap, but committed no R―pe.

V.
The D———n, and his Landlord, a jolly Comrade,
 Resolv'd for a fortnight to swim in delight;
For why? they had both been brought up to the trade
 Of drinking all day, and whoring all night.
  My Landlord was ready his D———nship to ape,
  In ev'ry debauch, but committing a R―pe.

VI.
This Protestant Zealot, this E———sh Divine,
 In Church and in State was of Principles sound:
Was truer than Steele to the H―n―r Line;
 And griev'd that a Tory should live above Ground.
  Shall a subject so loyal be hang'd by the Nape,
  For no other Crime but committing a R―pe?

VII.
By old Popish Canons, as wise men have penn'd 'em,
 Each Priest had a Concubine, jure Ecclesia.
For who would have F———rns without a Commendam?
 And Precedents we can produce, if it please ye.
  Then why shou'd the D———n, when whores are so cheap,
  Be put to the peril and toil of a R―pe?

VIII.
If fortune shou'd please to take such a Crotchet,
 (To thee I apply, great Sm———y's successor,)
To give thee Lawn-fleeves, a Mitre, and Rochet;
 Whom wou'dst thou resemble? I leave thee a guesser.
  But I only behold thee in Atherton's shape,
  For Sodomy hang'd, as thou for a R―pe.

IX.
Ah! dost not thou envy the brave Col. Ch———s,
 Condemn'd for thy Crime at threescore and ten?
To hang whom all En———nd would lend him their Garters;
 Yet he lives, and is ready to ravish again.
  Then throttle thy self with a yard of strong tape:
  For thou hast not a Groat t'atone for a R―pe.

X.
The D———n he was vext, that his whores were so willing;
 He long'd for a Girl that would struggle and squail.
He ravish'd her fairly, and sav'd a good shilling:
 But here was to pay the Devil and all.
  His troubles and sorrows now come in a heap;
  And hang'd he must be for committing a R―pe.

XI.
If maidens are ravish'd, it is their own choice;
 Why are they so willful to struggle with men?
If they would but lie still, and stifle their voice;
 No Devil, nor D———n could ravish 'em then.
  Nor would there be need of a strong hempen Cape,
  Ty'd round the D———n's neck, for committing a R―pe.

XII.
Our Church and our State dear E———nd maintains;
 For which all true Protestant hearts should be glad:
She sends us our B———ps, our Jud———s and D———ns,
 And better wou'd give us, if better she had.
  But Lord! how the Rabble will stare, and will gape!
  When the good En———sh D———n is hang'd up for a R―pe.


LONDON.

Thursday, June 4.

Last night the corpse of Doyle was interred in a vault at S. Sepulchres. Post Boy. A great deal of wine was given at his funeral, and a vast mob followed. Cour.

A Certiorari was yesterday granted by the Court of King's Bench, to remove the special verdict (now settled) against Mr. Huggins, into that Court; and likewise a Habeas corpus to bring him up thither. Daily Post. A Certiorari to remove the Record of the Proceedings. D. Jour.

The L. B. of London ended his visitation of the London Clergy last sat. at S. Paul's. Ibid.

Yesterday 2 men fighting on Fish-street hill, one being thrown down, a coach ran over him, and killed him. Post Boy.

In Bishopgate-street, a chaise ran over a servant maid, having a child in her arms, killed the child, and bruised the maid so much, that her life is despaired of. Ibid.

Dr. Jabez Earl was chosen 1 of the 6 Preachers of the Merchants lecture at Salter-hall. D. Journ.

There is building at Richmond, and almost finished, a small, but very neat and regular Theatre, a little higher on the hill than that where the late Mr. Penkethman's stood. Ib.

The Officers of the Regiments at Gibraltar and Minorca, who are absent from their Posts, are ordered to repair to them forthwith. Ibid.

Last week Dr. Bradley, Professor of Botany in the University of Camb. was to view the new Pot-house at Black-wall, near Stepney; where he found an extraordinary clay for Garden-pots, for the preservation and health of plants; and has settled the several proportions requisite from the smallest herb to the largest orange-tree, and bespoke on his own account a large number to be sent to Cambridge. Daily Post———I hope the learned Professor will proceed to view the rest of the Pot-houses, and likewise the Glass-houses, which he has not yet view'd. From where we may justly expect great improvements in Pots and Bottles; a subject, which if he once take in hand, he will not fail to exhaust.

Sat. last ——— Harris, Esq: was married to Miss Herbert, sister to Hen. Arth. Herbert, Esq; Even Post.

On tuesd. Tho. Vaux. Esq; to Miss Atkins, an heiress of 10000l. Ibid.

And this morning Edw. Stanley, Esq; to Miss Ward, D. to Mr. Ward, an eminent Bookseller, a Lady of a considerable fortune. Lond. Even. About 16 a Lady of great merit, beauty, and fortune. St James's Even.

And likewise Mr. Jos. Fisher to Mrs. Kensey. D. to Mr. Kensey, an eminent Surgeon, a Lady of 6000l. fortune. Lond. Even.

Last week Sir Conyers D'Arcy was unanimoudly rechosen at Richmond in Yorkshire. Even Post.

His R. H. the Prince has appointed John Russel, Esq; to be Steward of the Hundred Courts in Cornwall. Ibid.

Yesterday the L. C. J. Raymond L. C. B. Reynolds and Mr. J. Price, assisted the L. Chancellor in a great cause, betwixt ——— Chester, Esq; Plaint, and Sir John Chester, Bar. Def. for an estate of 1100l. per an. and it was decreed in favour of the Defendant. S. James's Ev.

On mond Mrs. Lavinia Beswick, commonly called Miss Fenton was brought to bed of a 2d son. Ibid.

Col. Chartres was arrested in Fleet Street, at the suit of a Runner at Newgate, for 50l. for services pretended to be done during his confinement in Newgate. Ibid.

Wedn. Mug. Workind was committed to Newgate on the oath of her husband, for cursing their Majesties, Even. Post. A proper way for a loyal husband to get rid of a rebellious wife.

Tuesd. 2 Carters quarrelling about the way in Ludgate street, went to boxing: one was knocked down at the first blow, and his own cart moving forward went over his head, and killed him on the spot. Even. Post I suppose the Houyhaahms, whch drew the cart, took this opportunity of revenge for his ill usage, and I hope it will teach his brethren more humanity towards them.

Sat. even. Mrs. Moor, Wid Rossey, of Coulstone, and Mr. Canston's Daugh. of Croyden about 13 years old, were overturned on Ricklesdown, in a tilted cart loaded with goods, and were all smothered to death. Miss. Moor's son drove the cart. Mrs. Rossey has left 3 children. St. James's Even

Tuesd. Mr. Smoakam, a Quaker in Horslydown Fair-street, Tallow-chandler, drowned himself at a wharf near Dancing-bridge. He was about 27, and in a very likely way to thrive in the world. Even. Post and Whitehall Even.———I am well informed, that Smoakam was too great a lover of a pipe, &c. to thrive in the world, and that he had more Spirit than to drown himself; being seen reeling in the street, as if the inward man was very wet, about an hour before the outward accidentally became so.


Friday, June 5.

Yesterday the Commissioners of the Navy received proposals for hiring Ships for transporting soldiers to Gibraltar and Port Mahon. Daily Journ. Took up 15 Ships measuring about 3000 tons. Courant. Contracted for 1800 ton. Post Boy.

The total of the Guards, and the 3 marching Regiments of Kik, Ker, and Tyrawley, designed for Don Carlos's expedition, consist of 3332 men. Courant.

Wedn. Abr. Jett, Esq; was married to Miss Anne Sophia Allanson, an heiress of 12,000 fortune. Post Boy.

The R.H. Lord Lynn, is appointed L. Lieutenant of Norfolk, in the room of his Father; and likewise Master of the Jewel office. Ibid.

From Antigua there is advice, that their crop of sugar this season was extraordinary good. D. Post.

Mr. Charlesworth, who was on wedn. surrendered by his bail, was the same day sent to the Fleet. Ibid.

The Rev. Mr. Warnford was chosen Lecturer Yesterday of S. Michael's Cornhill, by balloting. Ibid.

Wedn. at Guidhall a cause was tried betwixt Mess. Oliveri and Andrea, Plaint. and Sam. Lloyd, alias S. Legar, Def. in which it appeared, that the Defendant being one half owner of the Good Providence Sloop, together with Rob. Halsey, in a voyage from Sicily with a lading of wheat, consigned to the Plaintiffs at Lisbon, put into Cagliary, sold the wheat, and received the money for it: the cargo being valued at 600l. the Jury brought in a verdict for the Plaintiffs for the said sum. D. J.


Saturday, June 5.

From Scotland they tell us, that the Rev. Mr. Tho. Ray, a Minister of the Kirk, has been fined by the venerable Assembly, for the detestable sin of powdering his wigg on a sunday. Fog's Journal.———The crime, I suppose, was Sabbath-braking, on performing the Barber's, instead of the Presbyter's office, upon that day.

The 15,000l. granted by Parliament for the half-pay officers Widows, that can prove their marriages before 1716, is now under settlement at the War office Ibid.

We hear that the great South Sea Ship, lately built, which now lies at Woolwich, will not be sent as yet to the South Seas but whether it is because her burthen is vastly above the Contract, or that so is made too fine to be exposed so far in the Seas, we shall not say. Crafts-man.

Just published, a Print of a very handsome draught, presented to the R. H. Sir Robert Walpole, curiously engraved by Mr. Fourdrinier, and highly approved of by the ingenious and learned, for its emblems and devices. Ibid.———Upon reading this Advertisement, I bought the Print and presented it to my little Grand-son Jeffry; who (by the was) was born on the 10th of this month, above 9 at night, and will be then just 9 years old, but for political reasons I keep his birth day on the 11th. He was much delighted with the present, and admir'd the emblems and devices; and, what pleased me most, took particular notice of the 6 latin verses at the bottom: the 2 last of which (in all good epigrams the best) ran thus
Iavidus improperet, strideat, vel garriat amens:
  Hunc qui tanta patrat docta Minerva regit.

On which occasion tho' he said he was glad to find stri to strideat common; had been lately whipp'd at school for making it short, and not remembering strideo, stridi, in As impræsenti.

Last thursd. his Majesty was pleased to appoint Will. Lee, Esq; Attorney Gen. to the P. of Wales, &c. to succeed the present L. C. J. Reynolds, as a Judge of the Court of the K. Bench. Post Boy. Of what Court, we hear, is not yet settled. D. Journal.

Orders are sent to Deptford and Woolwich, to get in readiness with all expedition, 2 Bomb-vessels that are building there, and will soon be launched. Post Boy.

Yesterday as the labourers were digging in the foundation of the Cloisters of S. Bartholomew's Hospital, they found upwards of 100 silver Medals in a box, the coin of K. Henry I. the founder of that Hospital above 600 years ago. Ibid. A considerable quantity of silver-money, in pieces about the size of Shillings and Six-pences, of the coin of Edward VI. the Inscriptions, tho' of such an ancient date, are very fair and legible. D. Post.

We hear that Capt. Shirley, Brother to the E. Ferrers and Capt. Reynolds, Son to the L. Bishop of Lincoln, (which last Gentleman was lately broke by order of his Majesty upon the report of a Court-martial) are both gone into holy orders. Ibid.———Quare, Whether these Gentlemen, by changing the colour of their Coats cease to be men of courage and honour; of which (in the opinion of the Gentlemen of the Sword) the Black-coats have very little.

Tuesd. the King's Plate at Salisbury of 100 guineas was run for by 3 horses, and won by Mr. Shepherd's Verass Ib.

Sat. Sir Fran. Vyvyan, Bar. was married at Mawgan, in Cornwall, to Miss Hoblyn, a beautiful young Lady of a good fortune. Ibid.

Mon. died at Salisbury, in the 12th year of his age, Sir Nich. Crisp, Bar. and is succeeded in title by his Uncle, Char. Crisp, of Dorneford, in Oxfordsh. Esq; Ibid.

Hen. Rolle, Esq; has been unanimously elected a Representative for Devonshire, in the rooms of his Father. D. J.

Thursd. 2 young men washing themselves in the Thames, near Mill-bank. Westm. a West-country boat coming by, 1 of them dived under it, and never rose afterwards. Even. Post.

This day at noon Is. Broderick stood in the Pillory at Charing-cross for attempting to commit Sodomy. St. James's Even. He was severely pelted by the Mob, several women amongst them shewing their resentment by throwing eggs and dirt at him. Even. Post.

Col. Chartres having petitioned his Majesty for leave to bring a Writ of Error to reverse the judgment lately given against him, his case has been referred to the Attorney and Sollicitor Gen. who are to make their report next week. Lond. Even.

This morn. Mr. Rob Griffith, a noted Blacksmith in Pal-Mall, was found hang'd in his own Work cellar. Ibid. He was in good circumstances, but was apprehensive he should come to want, which was the occasion of his untimely end. St. James's Even.———I am informed, that the occasion of it was present want of a beautiful Sempstress of 50. he himself being above 60.

They have began to pull down the Tapestry hangings in the Painted Chamber, and to clear the gardens behind it, to frame the work of the new Building. St. James' Ev.

They write from West-Ashon in Wilts, that a violent distemper rages thereabouts, which has carried off great numbers in less than 24 hours; and that 4 or 5 persons lye frequently dead in one family. Ibid.


Monday, June 8.

W. Wrightson, Esq, 4th Clerk in the Pipe-office, is appointed 3rd Clerk; and W. Tully, Esq; is appointed 4th. F. B.

Sat. died in White-fryers the Rev. Mr. Cheyney, of Oxford, who had an estate of 5 or 600l. per ann. D. Post.

Sat. John Sheffield was committed to Newgate, on the oath of John Waller, for robbing him on the Highway of 11 guineas, &c. James Dalton was convicted upon Waller's evidence; and 4 other persons were committed to Newgate on his oath for robbing him; the bills against 2 of whom were returned Ignoramus, and the other 2 were tried and acquitted. Ibid.

A few days since several persons of quality went to Mr. Whitmill's garden at Hoxton, to see the forward grapes, peaches, plumbs, raspberries, &c. which he has had ripe 2 months, and are allowed to be as well flavoured as the same sorts would be in France in the natural season: so that the forcing walls recommended by Dr. Bradley, were ordered by several of the noble Personages to be erected in their gardens. Ibid.

Frid. one Mrs. King, a fine woman, came to the house of Mrs. Jumper in Thread-needle-street, and complaining that her head ached, went to lie down on the maid's bed. About 9 she got out on the top of the house, and jumpt off, and died on the spot. D. Journ———Mr. Conundrum is of opinion that here is a mistake; and that it was Mrs. Jumper who came to Mrs. King's house.

Sat. at the Court of K. Bench James Cox and Tho. Charlesworth were found guilty of forging and publishing a false and counterfeit Letter of Attorney, in the name of Mary Read Wilson, to acknowledge satisfaction upon a record of judgment, and for executing the same. D. Journ.


Tuesday, June 9.

Yesterday the 3 Regiments of Foot guards passed in review before his Majesty in Hyde park; and perform'd their exercises in a most compleat and expert manner. Daily Post. They were under arms by 4 in the morning; and about 10 their Majesties, with the rest of the Royal Family, came from Richmond. D. Journ.

Yesterday morn. the D. of Norfolk set out of Town for Dover, in his way to France. D. Post.

Mr. Edw. Godfrey, an eminent Brewer, was married on thursd. last to Mrs Mary Harris, a Lady of 10000l. fortune. Daily Journal.

A protest been laid before his Majesty, for encamping all the forces in Great Britain, for the care of cities and corporate Towns &c. St. James's Even. 3 camps to be formed for the ease of Cities &c. London Even.


Wednesday, June 10.

Yesterday they began to victual the transports that were taken up on Thursday last at the Navy-Office, for taking on Board the Land Forces design'd for the Expedition of Don Carlos into Italy. D. P.

Dublin, May 30, Wedn. last Mr. Dan. Kimberly was executed at Stephen's Green. 3 Clergymen attended him, to one of whom he delivered several Papers. As the cart was drawing from him, he got hold of the rope with both his hands; but being obliged to quit his hold, he cried out, The Lord Jesus receive my soul. N. B. He was entrusted by Miss Reading's Father to carry her to England. Post Boy.

Hilsborough, May, 20. Tuesd. the 19th. there was a prodigious lightning, thunder, rain, and hail. A large ball of fire,———set the cabbin of Will. Coburn on fire———tore up trees by the roots, oversetting hedges and ditches, tore a house to pieces, and carried one of the beams half a mile through the air, and darted it into the earth near 2 foot deep,———threw out three flashes with prodigious noise, and almost suffocated people with the stench of fulphur———and plunged several times in the river Lagan, throwing the water a great height, where it is supposed it was quenched. Cour.———This Story, as I am told, Father W———n affirm'd in a Coffee-house, implied Absurdities, Improbabilities, and Incredibilities, if taken literally; but according to its mystical meaning, it aptly pointed out to us, a certain red hot Irish D———n, who now makes a great noise. He there explained Allegory at large; and shewed how exactly the Letter and the Spirit tallied. Had I room in this place, it is not consistent with my gravity to repeat all that he said on this occasion; however, I shall give a short specimen. He desired his audience to observe the particular force of the words used in this narration, lightning, thunder, rain, hail, and ball of fire, the three flashes, noise, and stench; the balls plunging several times in the river, where it was at last quenched. The oversetting ditches, he said, was impossible in a literal sense; but taken figuratively the expression was very elegant; the wisest of men having called a whore a deep ditch, whom all men must own very apt to be overset. Several Gentlemen of our Society being present, who have oblig'd the Town with Epistles, Satires, Translations, Ballad Opera's, Tragical Comedies, Comical Tragedies; &c. much admired his Discourses, and highly applauded his penetration, wit, and learning.

June 2. Tuesd. 19, there was a great thunder and hail, which began about Tondragee, &c. The hail was of an uncommon shape in long and rough stones, and tore up all the cabbage Plants; and on friday the 22d, they lay a foot deep in several places. Cour.

It is not certain from the words of this Irish Author, whether the Hail-stones or the Cabbage plants lay a foot deep: I am inclined to think it was the latter.

This morn. Dr. Tho. Sawbridge, Dean of Ferns, was arraigned, for forcibly and feloniously ravishing one Sus. Runcard in this City last April, and committed prisoner to the custody of the Sheriffs. Lond. Evening Post.


From the Pegasus in Grub-street.

Northampton, June 9. Yesterday began the Poll for Knights of this Shire, between Sir Justinian Isham Bar. and John Hanbury, Esq; at the closing of the books, the former had a Majority of 32. The Poll will be continued this Day and To-morrow, unless the latter should give before; for it is generally thought he will be very up much out-polled to Day: L. St John's, Mr. Cartwright's, and Mr. Knightley's Tenants being expected to come in with great numbers of their Neighbours in 3 large bodies.———Indeed fortune seems to favour one side, and oppress the other, whose Interest lies chiefly at London, (or a great way out of the County.) For besides the Miscarriage of some awing (or influencing) Letters, some unaccountable accidents have interven'd. Mr. Daws a Farmer and Freeholder a few miles off, driving a load of Wood, his Horses took a fright, crush'd him against a Tree, and he dy'd the next Day; so that he could not be against Sir Just. and the next Heir is come to poll for him. Another, a Gentleman, has been kept out of the way by a stranger accident or contrivance, his Lady having been so indiscreet or revengeful to let him catch her in a criminal Conversation with a Dancing Master; he has behaved so wildly on this Occasion that he can't shew his Head here, but is gone out of the Country, some say to herd with his Brethren at London, some in the Fens. And further, to preserve the Independence of their Country, some hearty Females give away themselves and Freeholds to make Pollers; which being like to prevail better than the fraudulent splitting of Votes, has occasion'd some mobbing and animosities, for which Warrants have been issued; and you may depend on an Account of them, if worthy of notice.

The Comical Tragedy of Tom Thumb having had so great a run, (this being the 33d day) he raised the envy of some unsuccessful Poet against the Author, and occasioned the following Parody.

Act. 1. Sc. 1. pag. 1.

Dood. When Goody Thumb first
man F———g brought this Thomas forth,

        The Genius of our Land
        the Bard triumphant reign'd:
        Then, then, O Arthur
        F———g did thy genius reign.


Nood. They tell me it is whisper'd in
from the books
mouths.

        Of all our Sages, that this mighty Hero,
        Piece,
        By Merlin's art
        On Folly's self begot, has not a bone
        joke
        Within his skin,
        its leaves, but is a lump of gristle.
        non-sense.


Dood. Would Arthur's subjects were
If F———s pieces prove such gristle
nonsense all;

        He then might
        will break the bones
        hearts of ev'ry foe.

This being apprehended, by the greater part of the Members present, to be design'd as a Satire upon the Author, for whom they have a great value; they were against the inserting of it in our Journal. Bet I observed to them, that let it be design'd as it would, it was in reality a Panegyric; which the last lines evidently shewed. And that even the 2 preceding lines, which seemed to carry in them the greatest reflection, had really none upon this performance, but upon the Plays which were ridiculed by it. The Collection of those Plays is Folly's self, upon whom our Author begot this mighty Piece; which, being more like its mother, than Father, is consequently a heap of Nonsense. Mr. Curioso was wonderfully taken with the art of whispering in books which it seems was known to the Sages in K. Arthur's days; and art as ingenious as that of painting a sound.

Bavius.

Last Friday at the Prince William Tavern, a very modest young gentleman, alias M―re, alias Smith, who had been concern'd in a Libel against an eminent Physician, had the Correction of the Cane bestow'd upon him by a Relation of that Physician, which Correction he receiv'd with exemplary Patience and Resignation.


FOREIGN NEWS.

Thursday, June 4.

Yesterday arrived the Mail from France, and 3 from Flanders.

Paris, June 10. The King has revived the Council of Commerce. Post Boy. On the 5th the solemn opening of the Gen. Assembly of the Clergy was performed with the usual ceremonies. Daily Post. Mr. Bourgeois, formerly a Wine-merchant, was lately taken out of the Mad-house at his Wife's request: who being with him last saturday, he beat her brains out with a cane. Post Boy. It is written from Rome, that since the exclusion of the Card. Imperiali, Ruffo, and Corsini, Card. Colonna seems to stand fairest for the Pontificate. Daily Post.

Amsterdam, Jun 9. It is advised from Florence, that an Earth-quake, which had been felt in divers parts of that Dutchy the 12th, had quite ruined the small City of Norcia; all the houses, except 2 Convents, and the Palace of Justice, being overturn'd: that 400 persons were already drawn from under the ruins; and that 4000 were retired into the country. Whitehall Even.


Friday, June 5.

Rome, May 20. Several complaints having been made to the Conclave, that the Chevalier de S. George's coachmen always drive furiously, and sometimes overturn other coaches in the Streets, without respect of persons, the sacred College desired him, in the handsomest manner, to order his coach-men to take more care for the future: whereupon he sent a Gentleman to assure them, that he will turn them out of his service as soon as he comes to Town from Albano, Cour.———Father, W———n I'm inform'd, says, this is not to be understood literally, it being highly improbable, that the Chevalier has several Coachmen; and if he had, that they should overturn Coaches in the Streets in this manner, which he People would not suffer them to do, but would beat them out of their boxes. It is therefore only a prophetical and parabolical narrative, by way of warning, of what his Coachmen (i.e. Clergymen,) will do, if ever they have an opportunity: they will always drive furiously, and overturn other coaches (i.e. Churches) without respect of persons. This allegorical interpretation of this learned Father may, in some sense, be called literal; it being very remarkable, as be justly observes, that the words Coachmen, Clergymen, Coaches, and Churches begin all with the same letter.


Monday, June 8.

Hague, June, 9. N S. After all the Representations of the Crown of England against repairing Dunkirk, it is plainly in a condition to receive ships of some burden, if the account be true, that a Fregate arriv'd there the 3d inst. from the French Colonies in America. Post Boy.

Hague, Jun 13, Yesterday seven of those vile wretches [persons convicted of Sodomy] were publickly executed here; tho' if money could have been of any use, none perhaps would have been wanting to commute the punishment: but to the immortal honour of the Courts of Justice here, there is no respect of persons in such cases. These persons were first hanged, then two of them burnt, and the other 5 carried to Scheveling, and thrown into the sea. Considering the number of persons already in prison upon this score, and the discoveries duly made, this execution may be regarded only as the Prologue to the Tragedy likely to ensue. Ibid.

Yesterday arrived the Mail from France.

Paris, June 4. Letters from Rome of the 24th import, that the sacred College did intend to raise to the Pontifical Throne the Card. Pico de Mirandola, but that it was apprehended, that Card. Cinfuegos would put the negative upon him likewise, in the Emperor's name. D. Post.


Tuesday, June 9.

This day arrived the Mail from Holland.

Vienna, June 2. This Day arrived a Courier from Count Kinski, Ambassador Extraordinary at the French Court, which gives farther hopes of an Accommodation than before, and 'tis expected that Orders will soon be given to the Troops on their March towards Italy to wait for fresh Orders. We hear from Belgrade, that the Turks on the Side of Hungary had assembled 40000 Men, but that they had attempted no Manner of Hostilites upon the imperial Territories, which made it supposed their Designs were against some other Place. However, as all Things are ready for their Reception should they attempt any Enterprize, no great Umbrage is taken thereat at this Time. St. James's Evening.

The Course of the Exchange.

    Amsterdam 34 5
    Ditto at Sight 34 3
    Rotterdam 34 6
    Antwerp 35 1
    Hamburgh 33
    Paris at Sight 32 5 8ths
    Bourdeaux at sight 32 1 half
    Cadiz 42 1 half
    Madrid 42 1 half
    Bilboa 42 1 8th
    Leghorn 51 1 half
    Genoa 54 1 half
    Venice 49
    Lisbon 5s. 6d. 1 half a 5 8ths
    Porto 5s. 5d. 3 8ths a 1 half
    Dublin 11 1 4th

Prices of Goods at Bear Key on Monday.
	per Quarter
Wheat 	26 to 28
Rye 	12 to 13
Barley 	12 to 13
Oats 	8 to 13
Horse Beans 	18 to 21
Hog Peas 	12 to 16
Boiling Peas 	20 to 25
Pale Malt 	16 to 21
Brown Malt 	51 to 18
Tares 	22 to 24
Coals 	22s. to 26s. per Chaldron
Hops 1728 	26s. to 29s. per Hundred.
Hops 1729 	30s. to 65s. per Hundred.
Rape Seed 	13l. to 16l. per Last.

On Tuesday Stocks were

South-Sea 103 3 8ths, a 1 half. South Sea Annuity 106 3 8ths, a 1 half. Bank 131. India 190 1 half, 190 1 4th. Three per Cent. Annuity 96 1 4th. Million Bank 107. African 45 1 half, a 6. York Buildings 18 1 8th. Royal Assurance (100 l. paid in) 94. London ditto (13 l. paid in) 12 1 8th. Bank Circulation 7l. 15s. South Sea Bonds 4l. 12s. India ditto 5l. 3s. English Copper 3l. 15s. Welch ditto 2l. 11s.


To the Worthy Livery-Men of the City of LONDON.

Gentlemen,

YOUR Vote and Interest are humbly desired for

HENRY RAPER, Esq;

Citizen and Painter-Stainer;

AND

JAMES CHAMBERS, Esq;

Citizen and Goldsmith;

To be Sheriffs of this City and County of Middlesex, for the Year ensuing; who are the Two foremost in the List of those Gentlemen that for many Years past have been nominated by several Lord Mayors to serve that Office.

N.B. It has been unanimously resolved in Common-Council, that for the future all Sheriffs Fines shall be appropriated ONLY towards building a Mansion-House for the Lord Mayor, so much wanted to support the Honour and Dignity of this Great City.


ADVERTISEMENTS.
Speedily will be published,
Number II.
[To be continued.]

AN Author to be Lett: Being a History of the past and present Transactions of the Members of the Bathos: In which will be fully and faithfully delineated the character of that modest, ingenious, tall, young Man Jemmy Moore Smythe. By Iscarios Hackney.

We, being neither Scholars, Doctors, nor Divines, call our selves Gentlemen; which sure no body will deny, because one of us the Son of a Footman, One, &c.

Grub street Journal, No 19.

N.B. Soon after will also be published, The Gentlemen of the Dunciad. A Poem. By Mr. Savage, with a Preface.

Printed for L. Gilliver, at Homer's Head against St. Dunstan's Church, Fleet-street.


Just published,

Printed on a superfine Paper, in two Volumes in Quarto,

SOME Observations made in travelling through France, Italy, &c. in the Years 1720, 1721 and 1722: Containing a large and particular Account of the most remarkable Curiosities in those Countries, as well such as relate to their Manners, Customs, religious Orders, Ceremonies, &c. as likewise of their Architecture, Paintings, Sculpture, and other Antiquities, which are esteemed most worthy of the Observation of an English Traveller. With some short Remarks on the Air, Soil, Productions, Trade, Manufactures at several Places, occasionally interspersed. By Edward Wright, Esq; illustrated with 40 curious Drawings, design'd upon the Spot by the Author, and engrav'd on Copper by the best Hands.

Printed for Messieurs Ward and Wicksteed in the Inner Temple Lane.


Just published,

PROPOSALS for Printing by Subscription, a beautiful and correction Edition of ROBERTI STEPHANI Thesaurus Lingue Latinæ. Compared with the best Editions of the Classics, the References adjusted and supplied by J. MARTYN, F.R.S., and the whole corrected and revised from the Press by R. RUSSEL, M.A.

The great Usefulness of this Work having render'd it scarce (tho' it has passed four Impressions) that the best Edition is now sold for at least sixteen Pounds, it is presumed that the Re-printing of it, with these Improvements, will be very acceptable to all the Learned in Europe.

This Work is to be printed from the last Edition (printed at Lyons, containing 653 Sheets, divided into four Tomes) and will be rendered much more useful, by citing not only the Books but Chapters of the Prose Authors, and even the Lines of the Poets; which being adapted to the improved Editions of the Classics, we doubt not will be as agreeable to the Studious, as laborious to the Editors.

It will be printed in the same Manner, and on as good Paper, as the Specimen annexed to the Proposals.

The Price to Subscribers will be six Guineas a Sett in Sheets; only one to be paid down, two on the Delivery of the first Volume (which will contain about 170 Sheets) and one more for each of the other three Volumes.

Some Copies will be printed on a larger Paper for the Curious, at nine Guineas a Sett in Sheets; two to be paid down, two for the first Volume, two for the second, one for the third, and two for the last.

As soon as 200 are subscribed for, the Work shall be put to Press.

The Names and Titles of the Subscribers will be prefixed to the first Volume.

When the Subscription is closed, the Price will be raised to eight Guineas for the small Paper, and twelve the large.

Receipts for the Subscription-Money are signed by all the Proprietors, which they will pay into the Hands of Francis Child, Esq; Alderman, and return it to the Subscribers by Christmas next, if there is not sufficient Encouragement.

Subscriptions are taken in by the Editors; and J. Ratley, at the Dove in Pater-Noster Row; A. Vandenhoeck, at Virgil's Head, over-against the New Church in the Strand; F. Cogan, at the Middle-Temple-Gate, Fleet-Street; and by the Printers, S. Palmer and J. Huggonson, in Bartholomew-Close.


This Day is Published,
(Price Four Pence.)
A General History of Executions, Numb. IV
(To be continued.)

COntaining an Account of the Lives and Actions of the two following Malefactors executed at Tyburn the first Instant, viz. John Doyle, a successful Highwayman, and John Young, a barbarous robber. Also of six Malefactors try'd and condemn'd at the Lent Assizes, before the late Lord Chief Baron Pengelly, and Mr. Justice Fortescue Allend, and executed at Heavytree Gallows near Exeter, two of them protesting their Innocence to the last.

Printed by R. Newton, at St. John's-Gate, and sold by the Booksellers in Town and Country.

Where may be had, Price 4d each,

Numb. I. containing the Life of Everett, a noted Highwayman, of Goodburn, a Poet, and of two other Malefactors executed at the same Time.

Numb. II. containing an Account of five Malefactors, and a Description of a large Gang of Thieves and Cheats, which infest at Times all parts of the Kingdom; of great Use to Officers of Parishes, and private Persons, for guarding against and detecting the said Rogues.

Numb. III. Containing an ample Relation of the noted Villain James Dalton, and of his Robberies for 20 years. Oh Hugh Houghton the Bristol MAil Robber; and three others.

Note, This Work meeting with Encouragement will be continued every Sessions, and the Numbers regularly published soon after the execution, and will contain an Account of the Criminals executed and transported throughout England, in order to make a compleat Volume at the Year's End, when a general Index will be given for that Purpose.


Books printed and sold by John Brotherton at the Bible in Cornhill.

    Life of Oliver Cromwel, 8vo.
    Collection of Novels, 12mo, 6 Vol.
    D'Ano's Tales of the Fairies, 3 Vol. 12mo.
    Free Thoughts on Religion.
    Pilgrim's Progress in 8vo, with Cuts, 2 Vol.
    Spectators, 8 Vol.
    Prideaux Connection, 4 Vol.
    Musical Misc. 4 Vol. 8vo.
    The Dancing Master, by Mr. John Essex, 4to.
    Boyer's Telemachus, 12mo.
    Gay's Fables, 8vo.
    Gordon's Geog. Grammar.
    Boyer's Dictionary in 4to, or 8vo.
    Blais's Sermons, 5 Vol. 8vo.
    Shakespear's Plays.
    Addison's Works, 4 Vol.
    Lockyer's Trade to India
    Abelard's Letters
    Garth's Ovid, 2 Vol.
    Plutarch's Lives, 8 Vol.
    Don Quixot, 2 Vol.
    Guardians, 2 Vol.
    Ovid's Epistles
    Dryden's Virgil.


This Day is Publish'd

The Third Edition, corrected, adorn'd with a new Sett of Cutts,

And the Effigies of Mr. BUTLER,

Curiously engraved by Mr. Vander Guelt, and beautifully printed in one neat Pocket-Volume, in the same Stile of Hudibras, the entire three Volumes of

THE Posthumous Works of Mr. SAMUEL BUTLER, Author of Hudibras. Written in the Time of the Grand Rebellion, and in the Reign of King Charles II. Being a Collection of inimitable Satires, Speeches and Reflections upon those Times. Published from Original MSS. and scarce and valuable Pieces formerly printed.

Printed by and for Richard Reily in Little Britain; and sold by the Booksellers of London and Westminster.

Of whom may be had, just published,

PARALLELS of the Sounds and SYllables of the FRENCH and ENGLISH Languages; or, the French Pronunciation made easy to the English Learner. Being a certain easy and speedy Method suited to all Capacities, by which Learners may of themselves, without the Assistance of any Master, attain the true Pronunciation of the French Tongue. A Work never before attempted.


This Day is Publish'd

THE LIFE of the Right Rev. Dr. White Kennett, late Lord Bishop of Peterborough; with several original Letters of the late Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr. Tennison; the late Earl of Sunderland; Bishop Kennett, &c. and some curious original Papers and Records, never before published. And also

The Foreigner's Guide: Or, a necessary and instructive Companion, both for the Foreigner and Native, in their Tour through the Cities of London and Westminster. Giving,

1st. A general Description of these two Cities, with an Account of their respective Government.

2dly. A Description of the Royal Palaces, Noblemens Houses, publick Buildings, Churches, Streets, Squares, and the most remarkable Places in and near the famous Metropolis: With an Account of the Inns of Court, Royal Society, publick Walks, Diversions, remarkable Days, Court Days, Post Days. And,

3dly. A Description of the several villages in the Neighbourhood; as Chelsea, Kensington, Richmond, Greenwich, Woolwich, Hampstead; and also others more remote, viz. Hampton-Court, Windsor, Oxford, Cambridge, Blenheim, New-Market Horse Races, Epson, Tunbridge, Bath. And,

4thly. An Account of the Rates of Coaches, Watermen; and also the Rates of Post Horses; with the Roads to Dover and Harwich.

Very useful and entertaining both to Foreigner and Native, and done into English and French.

Where may be had,

LOVE LETTERS on all Occasions, lately passed between Persons of Distinction. Collected by Mrs. Eliza. Haywood,
Pleasure with Sorrow, Peace with War allay'd,
Liberty fetter'd, Hope by Fear dismay'd;
Imbitter'd Honey, Earnest mix'd with Play,
Are, Love! the Emblems of thy sov'reign Sway.

Printed for, and sold by Francis Cogan, at the Middle Temple Gate in Fleet-street.


Just publish'd,

THE Female Parson; or, Beau in the Sudds. An Opera, as it is acted at the New Theatre in the Hay-market. By Mr. Charles Coffey, Author of the Beggar's Wedding.

Printed for Fran. Cogan, at the Middle-Temple-gate in Fleet-street, and Lawton Gillver over against St. Dunstan's Church. Price one Shilling.

Where may be had,

The Amours of Philario and Olinda; or, the Intrigues of Windsor: A genuine History. Price one Shilling. Also

An ESSAY founded on Arguments Natural and Moral, proving the Immortality of the Soul. Translated from the Original Manuscript of the Archbishop of Cambray. Price one Shilling.


Just published,

THE Law against Bankrupts: Or, a Treatise wherein the Statutes against Bankrupts are explained by several Cases, Resolutions, Judgments, and Decrees, both at Common-Law, and in Chancery. Together with the Learning of Declarations and Pleadings relating thereunto. To which are likewise added, Forms and Directions for Commissioners, and Precedents fit for the perusal of all Lawyers, Merchants and Tradesmen.

Sic utere tuis, ut aliena non Lædas.

The fifth Edition. To which is now added, An Appendix of all the Statutes relating to Bankrupts, to the Year 1725. By Tho. Goodinge, Serjeant at Law. Printed by E. and R. Nutt, and R. Gosling, (Assigns of Edward Sayer, Esq;) for F. Cogan, at the Middle-Temple Gate Fleet-street.


Just published,

TWO Epistles to Mr. Pope concerning the Authors of the Age. And the Merchant; on Trade, Navigation and Peace. Designed to give a new but just Idea, of the Pindaric Ode, and to shew the Scripture Style of the Prophets, highly proper for it. Dedicated to the Duke of Chandos.

Both by the Author of the Universal Passion.

Printed for Lawton Gilliver at Homer's Head against St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet-street.


LONDON: Printed for Capt. Gulliver and F. Cogan near the Temple, Mr. Jackson in Pall-Mall, and J. Brotherton near the Exchange, and Sold by J. Roberts in Warwick-Lane, where Letters and Advertisements, &c. are taken in. [Price Two Pence.]
