The Grub-street Journal — April 16th, 1730

Exported from Wikisource on May 12, 2026

Numb. 15.

The Grub-street Journal.

* * *

Thursday, APRIL 16. 1730.

* * *

———Faciet lucrum bibliopola Tryphon.

Mart. Epig. L. xiii. Ep. 3.

Die Mercurii, Ap. 15, 1730.

THIS day having been appointed for the election of a Book seller, there was a very numerous appearance at the Pegasus. Many letters from Booksellers in all parts of the Town were read; which being written in a very different stile, and spelt after a different manner, yielded great variety of diversion to the Society; and will, no doubt, yield the same to the Public, when it shall be thought proper to print them. As the letter of the great Kirleus, which was published in our Journal, Numb. 4. was much superior to all the rest: so the party which appeared for him seemed to be so; who thought they had secured his election by putting up against him a person, who, tho' very famous in the world, yet made no great figure in the trade, having been but newly set up. This person was Captain L. Gulliver, who by the advice of some friends at Dublin, and the incouragement of some copies sent from thence, had lately removed from Reddriff, and opened a Shop near Temple-bar.

The friends of Mr. Kirleus, not doubting but that they should carry the election, were very eager for putting it to the vote: when, to their great surprize, Orthodoxo stood up, and made the following speech.

"Gentlemen, Tho' it be certain, that some or other of this Society, as writing upon all learned subjects, are frequently publishing books in opposition to revealed religion, and in favour of immorality: yet, since the name of the Author is seldom put to any such pieces, they can no otherwise be known to belong to our Members, than by the stile and manner of them. And therefore, as the Society cannot fix them upon any particular persons, they cannot pass so effectual a censure upon those persons, as they design, whenever the Authors have the impudence to put their names in the title page. Of this they gave an instance in their censure of a reverend Renegado, in their Journal, Numb. 13. and the same day, Ap 1. they passed a Resolution, to discountenance all their Members who endeavour to promote the cause of Infidelity and Immorality. With this resolution, I imagine, it will not seem very consistent, to chuse a person for our Book seller, who has been very instrumental in corrupting the manners of the age. Mr. Kirleus has not only reprinted all the lewd books he could collect, written in English; but likewise taken care to get a great number to be translated out of foreign languages: of which several Gentlemen here present, if they think proper, can give, I believe, the most convincing proof. In this sort of trade he became so eminent, as to give occasion to the inriching of our language with a new term; filthy discourse having now for several years been called, by the polite part of the world, Curlism. Of which elegant word I wonder that our laborious and learned Brother N. Bailey, φιλολόγοσ, has taken no notice, who, tho' in his Etymological Dictionary (dedicated first to the Royal Family, and now very lately to the Earl of Pembroke) he has taken the pains to collect and explain all the obscene words, frequently used by the dregs of the people, has yet omitted this less vulgar term, which comprehends all manner of obscenity."

To this Pruriento made the following answer: "Tho' what you have urged against my worthy Friend cannot be denied; yet a good deal may be said, not only in excuse, but even in vindication of him. It is a maxim, which tho' not openly avowed, is yet generally followed by most persons in the way of trade, That the same action may be lawful, or unlawful, according as it is done by a person, either in, or out of his proper business. Thus if a Book-seller should tell me, that Col. Francisco was a very honest and chaste person, that all which had been sworn and said against him was false, and consequently that I might safely trust him with my money and wife; this might be justly accounted a lie. But if the same person should assure me, that the Bishop of Bangor wrote The Tryal of the Witnesses, in order to promote the sale of it; this, tho' perhaps no truer than the other, yet would not properly come under the notion of lying. The reason is: because in the former case, the Bookseller, acting out of his sphere, ought to speak the truth, his interest being not concerned; whereas in the latter, his right to promote his own interest in his own proper business, is antecedent, and consequently superior, to my right to a true information. The falshood in this case is of the same nature with that, which your well bred, religious persons oblige their servants to tell almost every hour in the day, viz. That they are not at home: which none but vulgar people, bred in a mean, low way, count to be lying. All such expressions therefore as, It was written by such a person; It sells extremely well; I have but so many left; I never sell it for less; &c. tho' they all contain falshoods, yet they are falshoods of of such a nature, as the ignorance, avarice, and impertinence of buyers have rendered necessary; insomuch that without them it is morally impossible to carry on a trade to any considerable advantage.

"This being premised naturally prepares the way for a just vindication of the Book-sellers in general, and of my friend in particular, as to the printing and publishing of such books, as are commonly called smutty or bawdy. As to these there is a great difference. For the design of some of them is to give a true historical account of former transactions, which may serve as precedents in determining the like cases which may happen, such as Cases of impotency and divorce, &c. Others are designed to promote natural knowledge, as The use of flogging, Art of kissing, Art of getting pretty children, Mysteries of conjugal love, &c. which all tend very much to the good of the public, by inciting to the propagation of a sound and vigorous offspring. And Books of Novels, if the events are unfortunate, are useful to deter young persons from following the like lascivious courses. Now if the abuse of writings of this kind be an argument against the use of them; it will hold equally strong against books of Anatomy, Surgery, Midwifery, &c. which are all perverted by the natural corruption of some readers to the promoting of lewdness and debauchery.

"Nay even as to those books, which, having been written solely with a design to corrupt the minds of persons, contain lewd descriptions of scenes of lust, and therefore may justly be called bawdy by way of eminence, even these have often an effect contrary to that which was originally intended. For according to the late Duke of Buckingham's just observation,

———Obscene words, too gross to move desire,

Like heaps of fewel do but choke the fire.

so that possibly some well disposed persons may sell them, as (what they really are to those of an elegant taste) Antidotes against lechery. And with this view, perhaps, the choicest pieces collected out of Rochester, and printed under the title of The Cabinet of Love, are publicly exposed to sale at a low price, like penny sermons, for the benefit of the poor.

"But setting aside all these favourable constructions, supposing even that these books in all probability will have a very bad effect; yet a Book-seller may lawfully publish and sell them, in order to provide a comfortable subsistence for his family. If, indeed. a shoe-maker should pretend to do this, it would be altogether unlawful, because it would be going beyond his last, and acting out of his proper calling. But to publish and sell books, being the proper business of a Book seller, he may do it, without inquiring concerning their contents, any farther than whether they are likely to sell or not: and he is no more answerable for the ill effects which may be produced by them, than a Cutler or a Gunsmith, for the murders committed with swords or pistols.

"This, I am well assur'd, is current doctrine among the generality of the Trade; and their practice every day verifies their firm belief of the truth of it. And this is further confirmed by a remarkable account given me by my worthy Friend; which, at the same time that it sets him upon the level, in one respect, with the rest of his fraternity, in another raises him to a superiority above them all. He tells me, that when he began to be eminent for books in this kind of literature, some of his preciser brethren, who did not care to put their names to such books, have given him a valuable consideration for the use of his; under which whole impressions have appeared printed at their charge. He assured me likewise, that several grave persons who now deal much in religious books, have formerly dealt in the other sort; and that it has been no unusual thing for a man to appear very devout and religious on the sunday, after having sold obscene books all the preceding week. The names of these cautious Traders may one day appear; but at present this affair is only just mentioned, to shew that Mr. Kirleus is full as innocent, and much more illustrious than the generality of his brethren, and therefore may justly claim a preference in your favour."

After a short silence, Pamphleteero stood up and said, "Tho' what the Gentleman who spoke last has said is a full vindication of Mr. Kirleus as a Book-seller; yet I must declare I cannot approve his election, for reasons both honourable to him, and such as, I believe, will induce him to decline the office of his own accord. As he has distinguished himself by writing, and imitated the stile of some of our most celebrated Brethren both in prose and verse, I think he ought to be chosen a Member of our Society.

"There are two or three resolutions have been passed by the Society, with which it is morally certain he will not comply, and therefore cannot be chosen our Book-seller. It has been resolved, that whoever has that place shall not be an Author for the future, nor publish any thing, except a title page, or an advertisement to the reader; and that he shall not vend any obscene or irreligious book. As it would be great pity to deprive the world of the ingenious lucubrations of Mr. Kirleus, by his confining himself to the employment of a book-seller; so I am very certain, that he will never consent to do it, much less to deprive himself of the annual profit arising from the sale of diverting books. There are three branches of literature in which he has distinguish'd himself, Natural History, and Philosophy (called by some Obscenity) and Antiquities. In labours relating to the 2 former he spent the vigour of his years: to the latter he has applied himself in his more advanced age, as a subject more suitable to his maturer judgment. The testimony of a learned Antiquarian relating only to his collections in one of these sciences may be justly applied to him in respect of all, that no Bookseller in Town has been so curious as he. Twenty volumes of Antiquities, and more than twice twenty of Natural Philosophy and History are a noble stock for one Book-seller, sufficient to enable him to carry on in his Literatory a very profitable business, with ease and dignity in his old age. All these branches of trade will be left almost intirely to him: for as our Book-seller will be obliged not to meddle with the 2 former; so, tho' the other consists of several productions of our Society, it will be in Mr. Kirleus's own power to keep it to himself, Since therefore our choice of him would only be the occasion of giving us a second trouble, I don't doubt but you will look upon Captain L. Gulliver as the most proper person to fill the place. He has, it is true, been an eminent Author, tho' only in the way of Travels; but as he has resolved neither to travel, nor to write any more, he is duly qualified for the place he desires: and he has delivered into the hands of our Secretary many curious Memoirs of Literature relating to the state of learning in Laputa and Balnibarbi, which on proper occasions will be communicated to the Public."

They then proceeded to the ballot; and upon casting up the votes, Mr. President declared Capt. L. Gulliver duly elected Book-seller to the Society.

The following Copy of verses sent by our Correspondent a Fellow of All Souls, being written in a very different strain from the Epistle of Calista to Altamont, it was thought proper to publish them. The Author of that Epistle is a latent member of our Society, and one who believes the Mortality of the soul, and its sameness with the body, as is evident from the 2 concluding lines,

Death's the best law to set the wretched free:

Death shall divorce thee from my self and thee.

The Character of the late Lady A———y.

Young, thoughtless, gay, unfortunately fair;

Her pride to please, and dressing all her care;

With too much kindness. and too little art,

Prone to indulge the dictates of her heart;

Flatter'd, caress'd, sollicited, admir'd;

By women envied, and by men desir'd;

At once from ease, from wealth, from honour torn,

She fell expos'd to pain, to want, to scorn.

But when her sad disastrous tale is told

To the gay Young, as lecture, by the Old;

Let both to kind compassion mov'd bemoan

Her sudden ruin, while her fault they own:

And say, that when by lawless love betray'd,

From the bright path of innocence she stray'd,

She could not long, depress'd with guilt and shame,

Survive the death of virtue and of fame.

* * *

LONDON.

Thursday, April 9.

Yesterday the following Gentlemen were declared Directors of the Bank of England, viz.

Mr. Bryan Benson, Stamp Brooksbank, Esq; Mr. Clement Boehm, Sir Gerard Convers, Knt. and Alderman, Thomas Cook, Esq. William Fawkener, Esq; Mr. James Gualtier, Sir Gilbert Heathcot, Knt. and Alderman, John Hanger, Esq; Matthew Howard, Esq; Henry Herring, Esq. Sir William Jolliff, Christopher Lethieullier, Esq; Humphry Morice, Esq; John Nicholl, Esq; John Osmius, Esq; Delilers Carbonel, Esq. M. Barington Eaten, Sir Joseph Eyles, Nathaniel Gould, Esq; Mr. Joseph Pace, jun. John Rudge, Esq; Matthew Raper, Esq; James Spilman, Esq; Courant.

Yesterday his Grace the Duke of Bridgewater and the Rt. Hon. the Earl of Godolphin came to Town from Newmarket; as did also the Rt. Hon. the Earl of Scarborough from his seat at Stanstead in Sussex. P. Boy.

The same day, the Rt. Hon. the Earl of Hallifax and the Lord Gower came to town from Newmarket Ibid.

Yesterday a very curious animal, alive, call a Hog in armour, supposed to be of the Tortoise kind, being brought over in the Prince Frederick from the West-Indies, was presented by a Sailor to his Royal Highness the Prince of Wales. Ibid.

The pictures of the Prince and Princess Royal of Prussia, at full length, which were presented to their Majesties about 3 years ago, are ordered to be placed up in the Royal Palace of Windsor. D. Post.

We are informed, that with the Tragedy of Cato, for Mr. Milward's benefit, will be revived an Opera of one act, called the Wedding, wrote (after the manner of the Beggars Opera) by Mr. Hawker; in which the Hudabrastick procession of Skimington is introduced. Daily Journal

I design to carry my wife to see this; and hope we shall both laugh very heartily, which I could never do, at seeing Cato acted before. I hear we are to have Julius Cæsar, with the comical humours of Rustego and his Man Terrible. I fear only one ill Consequence from this; that the Theatres at the other end of the Town will quite ruin Our Neighbours at Bartholomew Fair.

From the Utrecht Gazette, April 14. We hear, that the French intend to form an army of 70,000 men near Luxemburgh, this spring. Even. Post.

Yesterday morning General Sabine set out for Plymouth, in order to embark there for his Government of Gibraltar. Ibid.

Yesterday the Sessions began at the Old Baily, when the following Malefactors were convicted capitally, viz. Abraham Israel, alias Jones, for robbing Mr. Mendez de Costa, jun, of about 200 l. worth of Jewels; John Tizzard, for stealing Cloth from the Tenters; Thomas Sparle for Burglary, and Margaret Walker, alias Walters, for shoplifting. Ibid.

Yesterday morning Robert Cole, a private Centinel in Col. Moreton's Company in the 3d Regiment of foot guards, was again tied to the Halberts in St. James's Park, pursuant to the sentence of the Court-Martial, for cutting off a woman's finger at a Brandy-shop in King-street, Westminster, but swoon'd away before his sentence was fully executed, as he did before. Ibid.

Late last night, or early this morning, the Room next the Suttler's at St. James's house was broke open, and the Queen's Sedan-chair robbed of all the gold Tassels, Curtains, &c. The Board of Green-cloth hath ordered the Centinels to be strictly examined. St. James's Even.

Oath having been made at the Quarter Sessions held this week at Guildhall, that the price of Oats was under 15 s. per quarter, none can be now imported for the ensuing half year, without paying 5 l. 6d. per quarter, whereas before they might have been imported on paying 7 d. per quarter. Whitehall Even.

The sudden rise of African Stock from 44 to 5o (and which at the beginning of the last month was but 28) is owing to the prospect the Company now have of an allowance of ten thousand pounds per Annum for the maintenance of their forts in Africa, as marks of the possessions of Great Britain in those parts. Ibid.

The Court of assistants of the Surgeons Company, who met on tuesday last, being acquainted with the honour the Earl of Burling on had done them in taking a survey of their Theatre, and the generous benefaction he intended them, mentioned in our last, ordered, that their Governors do wait upon his Lordship with the thanks of the Company, for this magnificent instance of Generosity. London Evening.

At the same time they chose the ingenious and learned Dr. Goldsmith for the reader of their Osteological lectures. Ibid.

Friday, April 10.

On wednesday evening Mr. Justice Fortescue Aland arrived in town from the western circuit. Courant.

The Lord chief Baron Pengelly was taken ill at Exeter of a violent cold, which hath retarded his setting out on his return home; his Lordship's Groom died on the Circuit, and Mr. Harris, his Stark, is very ill. Ibid.

Yesterday at the Sessions at Hick's-hall a soldier having made oath directly contrary to what he had sworn before, was taken into custody, and a Bill of indictment for perjury ordered to be brought against him. Ibid.

Yesterday at the Sessions in the Old Baily, the 3 following Malefactors were convicted capitally, vz. David Aubert, for stealing from Charles Ecklin, Esq; a considerable quantity of plate; James Dalton, for the High-way; and George Downing, for robbing Thomas Wilson, Esq; of some Gold, Rings and money to the value of 40 l. his brother William Downing was also found guilty of being accessary in receiving the same Ibid.

Yesterday morning the Corpse of a drowned man was taken out of the Thames between Stangate and Lambeth; he had in his pockets some needles and a thimble, by which it was thought he was a Taylor by trade. Ibid.

On wednesday last in the afternoon, a male Infant, naked, was found dead near the wall near St. James's park, and was taken away by order of the officers of S. Martin's Church. Post Boy.

On wednesday evening, a Gentlewomen took Coach at the upper end of Bishopsgate-street, and was gone but a few yards from the place where she was taken up, before she died. We do not yet hear who she is. Ibid.

We are informed there were some wrong descriptions given in one of the papers last week, concerning a fine tall young Lady, her person well proportioned, with brown hair dressed in very fine Norwich crape, or black and white silk, resembling Norwich crape, faced with black silk, plain linnen and black gloves, who was walking with 2 or 3 other Ladies much shorter than her self, in the Mall in St. James's park, on tuesday the 24th of March last, a little before the King went thro' the park to the Parliament-house, and it being signified to the said unknown Lady, if she was a single woman, and would please to acquaint some friend to call at a certain place mentioned in that paper, the might be informed of something very honourable, that it was hoped would not be disagreeable to any Lady, tho' she were a woman of good fortune, and the best character; and that the need not make her self known, unless the subject of that enquiry was to her liking: Upon which several persons going to the place appointed out of curiosity, to ask needless and impertinent questions, were answered accordingly, and was also the occasion that others were sent away without any answer: if therefore the Lady, or any other person to whom the is known, will please to give an account where she may be seen or heard of, she may now send to Mr. Rawlinson's, at the golden hart in King-street by St. Anna's Church, Soho, and the the purpose will be answered. But all who think to give amusement by writing fictitious letters, or asking impertinent questions, in order to sift out the Gentleman that makes this enquiry, will find themselves (only) disappointed. D. Post.

Robert Halsey, late master of the good providence sloop, who was to have been discharged out of the fleet, upon the fugitive Act, on monday last at Guildhall, was on saturday charged with Piracy, and likewise with the murder of his Cabbin-boy, by a warrant from the high Court of Admiralty; and thereupon he was removed from the fleet prison to the Marshalsea, there to be confined till a Session of Admiralty be held at the Old Baily. The sloop was bound on a voyage from Sicily to Lisbon, with Corn, when these crimes are supposed to have been committed, but she proceeded to Cagliari, and there the master and others on board sold and discharged it, and then changed her name, and proceeded to Plymouth, and there quitted her. The particulars of which we gave some time ago. D. Journal

We hear from Holton in Gloucestershire, that on the 29th past, a Gentleman's servant being in the Belfry of that church in the town, and not observing the great bell to be set, put his foot upon the wheel, by which means the bell swung upon him, and killed him instantly. Ibid.

On sunday night last, between 12 and 1, the house of Mr. Bradford, salesman in Hobourn, was broke open: the Villains got in at a ground window into the Kitchen, and had packed up such furniture as was fit for their turn, but were prevented carrying off their booty by the watchman, who narrowly escaped being killed, one of the Rogues firing two pistols when they made their escape. Ibid.

Saturday, April 11.

Thomas Pelham, Esq; secretary to his Grace the Duke of Newcastle, and one of the Representatives in Parliament for Lewes in Sussex, coming from thence for London, was taken very ill on the Road, and still continues so to be. Courant.

Besides the gold Tassels stolen from off her Majesties, chair, we hear that the silver Rings of the curtains belonging to the same were stolen at the same time, Ibid.

Yesterday the Earl of London took his leave of their Majesties and his Royal Highness the Prince of Wales, and this day set out for Scotland, and desires to lie at Stevenage this night. Ibid.

Yesterday the three Judges made their report to the Privy Council, very much in favour of C. Chartres: and last night Col. Chartres was baled out of New-gate; his two sureties being bound in 500 l. each, and himself in 1000 l. in order to plead his pardon the next Sessions at the Old Baily. Post Boy.

On thursday last, there was a meeting of several of the Members of the Royal Society, at their house in Crane-court, Fleet-street, at which their Graces the Dukes of Devonshire and Richmond, and several persons of quality and distinction, were present, when several fine philosophical experiments were performed before them; and a Loadstone was sent for by his Grace the Duke of Devonshire, it being accounted one of the finest in Europe for magnitude and attraction, its weight being 106 pounds, and it taking up 170 pounds weight of Iron or Steel. Ibid.

Yesterday morning early died Col. Stocher of the Coldstream Regiment of Foot-guards; he was taken ill on saturday night last at his house in the Meuse, and was let blood immediately, after which he fell into Convulsions, and so continued till he died. D. Post.

Yesterday morning died Mr. Michael Beale, who was made Alphabet keeper in the foreign Office at the General Post Office, in the room of Mr. Gawen Nash, who died the 6th of January last. He is succeeded by Mr. William Whorwood, chief Clerk to the Post master General. Daily Journal.

Whereas a scoundrel dress'd in black, in a Chair drawn by a black horse, did on sunday last, about 7 in the evening meet 1 Gentlemen in a Chair also, a little on this side Brentford, and insulted them; this is to certify, that if he is a man of honour as he pretended to be, he will signify in this paper where he is to be met with. London Even.

I wonder the Author of this Advertisement should suppose a scoundrel to be a man of honour.

Monday, April 13.

Of the 10 Malefactors that were condemned at the Sessions in the Old Baily, which ended the 2d of March, the six following are ordered for execution on friday next, viz. Peter Rivers and John Curter, for robbing Henry Howard on the Highway; William Newcomb, for Felony and Burglary, in breaking into the house of Mr. Hoare, a Banker, in Fleet street; Ferdinando Shrimpton and Robert Drummond, for a robbery on the Highway, and for the murther of Mr. Tyson of Hackney's coachman; who are both to be hang'd in chains near the place where the said murther and robbery were committed; and Francis Hackabout likewise for the Highway. But Francis Chartres, Esq, hath obtained his pardon. Richard Hanson is reprieved, in order to transportation. Elizabeth Doyle is reprieved, and Stephen Dowdel died in Newgate. Courant.

On friday last George Rouson was tried at Hicks's hall, for a Rape of a child of 9 years old, and was sentenced to be whipt twice from Islington turn-pike to the Church, and to be kept to hard labour at Clerkenwell bridewell for one year. Ibid.

He was well served, being a person not duly qualified for those sports.

Next sunday the Court will go into mourning for 3 months, for the death of the Landgrave of Hesse Cassel. Daily Post.

On saturday last the Earl of Weems was at Court, to return his Majesty thanks for his most gracious free pardon granted to Francis Chartres, Esq; his father-in-law. Ibid.

Mr. Wolten, his Majesty's Agent at Rotterdam, died there the 11th instant, N.S. Ibid.

The Gentleman who made so much enquiry after the Lady he saw in the Park the 24th of March last, in order to save any farther trouble on that head, think it his duty to signify that the Lady is heard of. Ibid.

I am glad the Gentleman's mind is as ease, and hope the Lady meets him with equal love.

The Merchants and others who have any claims on the Spaniards, are forthwith to bring the necessary proofs and vouchers to justify the same to the office of the Lords Commissioners for trade and plantations, in order to their being delivered to the Commissaries. D. Journ.

There have been many robberies committed last week on Stratford Road. A Gentleman's servant going to escort his master from a neighbour's house on monday night, was attacked near Low-layton, by two foot pads, who robbed him of his Blunderbuss and Money, and then beat him. Ibid.

This comes of making use of Blunderbusses.

They write from St. Alban's, that a Gentleman upwards of 70 years of age, who set out from London on the 4th instant, in order to go to Sheffield in Yorkshire, to settle for the remainder of his days, was set upon by two foot pads on tuesday last, who robbed him of a Guinea and a half and some silver, which had been given him, it seems, by a nobleman in Piccadilly, to defray his journey. They knock'd him down twice, because he refused to deliver his money, and then bound him, and laid him in a ditch, where he must have perished, had he not been unbound by a man and his wife, who were passing by, and gave him half a Crown, and left him in a dying miserable condition. The same Rogues, about 2 hours after, committed another robbery on a Country woman; but 1 of them is since taken, and offers to make a large discovery. Ibid.

Last friday the Workmen found in the rubbish of the late fire in Fleet-street, in a vault of Mr. Clinton the Distiller 19 Moidores, out of a purse of 20, and a Guinea beside some silver and half pence. Ibid.

Tuesday, April 14.

On Saturday night last at the prince William tavern at Charing Cross, Mr. Dennis the famous Poet and Critick, was admitted a free and accepted Mason at a lodge then held there, having renounc'd the Society of the Gormogons, of which he had been a member many years. Cour.

Yesterday two months pay in 6 due to the Companies following of his Majesty's ships was paid to the Seamens lawful Attornies at the pay office in Broad street, viz.

Trial Sloop to the 30. of June 1729.

Shark Sloop to the 31. of October.

Tartar to the 25. of April.

Ditto. to the 26. of October.

Southampton Hulk. to the 30 of September.

Also two months pay in 6 to his Majesty's ship the Ludlow-castle. Ibid.

On Sunday last the Highwayman which was mentioned some time past in most of the papers, to have robbed and shot a Gentleman, having kept him Company from Bath till they came within a few miles of London, and was by the said Gentleman treated very handsomely, was taken in Horsly-down, and being had before Justice Hacks, was committed to the new Goal in Southwark. Ibid.

Yesterday the Commissioners of the Navy hired several ships for transporting of Soldiers from Port Mahone and Gibraltar, in order to establish Don Carlos in Italy. Ibid.

Yesterday several Owners and Masters of Ships attended at the Navy office, with proposals for letting their Ships to the Government; but none were taken up, the Commissioners not thinking their terms low enough. The Ships which they require must be square sterned, upwards of 200 Tons, having 5 feet height between Decks. They propos'd to hire them for 4 Months certain, and to have power to discharge them in the Mediterranean. D. Journal.

Yesterday all the effects belonging to Col. Chartres which he had with him when in the Press-yard at Newgate, were carried in a Hackney Coach to his new Lodgings in Leicester-fields. Cour.

On Wednesday last died Sir Thomas Rous of Henham-hall in the County of Suffolk Bar. Aged 74. He was a Gentleman of an excellent Character, which renders his death the greater loss. He was some time before the Revolution, Representative of that county in Parliament. Post Boy.

Yesterday morning Mr. Bryan, a Haberdasher of Small-wares at the Sun in the Strand, at the corner of the Savoy gate; had his shop broke open, the Rogues cutting a Hole in one of the Shutters, and lost in Mecklin and other Goods to the value of 100 l. Ibid.

On sunday morning, an unhappy accident happened at Roehampton, at the seat of the Rt. Hon. the Earle of Albemarle, by a little Dutch bull that was kept in a Stable. When one Mr. Jackson came to feed him, he gored him in such a dismal manner, that he tore all the flesh off one side of his face, and afterwards got him down, and broke his ribs and his leg; insomuch, that his life is despair'd of. A Messenger was sent to My Lord, who immediately sent away Mr. Talbot, a Surgeon, in a Chariot and four, to dress him, and ordered the beast to be killed. Ibid.

We hear that yesterday morning Ann Bond, the person that prosecuted Col. Chartres for a Rape, had 800 l. paid to her by a Gentleman of St. Margaret's at Westminster. Daily Post.

At the late siege of Gibraltar, acted in Tothill fields, an honest Captain, who commanded the Fusileers, having made a Breach, and standing upon the Ramparts, was opposed personally by a certain Rev. Orator, repulsed and thrown down into a dry ditch. It is apprehended the Orator had some design in this, having attack'd him twice before in Lincoln's-inn-fields, but without success. N.B. The Orator's Cannon are all Brass. D. Journal.

Wednesday, April 15.

We hear from Oxford, that it being proposed in that University, to conferr an Honorary Degree of Doctor of Laws on the Chevalier Ramsey (author of the Travels of Cyrus, and lately admitted a Member of the Royal Society) a Convocation was thereupon called on Friday last, and after a slight Opposition, that Favour was granted him by a majority of 85 to 17. Post Boy

"We hear that the Commission of charitable Uses for the County of Derby, procured by 2 Clergymen there, viz. Dr. Hutchinson, and. Mr. Cantrell, is return'd into Chancery, having been executed with good success. Several gross Abuses and Frauds have been already detected, and more will be upon the renewal of the Commission. Other Counties are preparing to follow this laudable Example for the Recovery of Benefactions, and Encouragement of Charity for the future."

Edinburgh, Apr 2. Yesterday two women were whipt through the city by the common Hangman, for whoredom and theft. Post Boy, Apr. 9.

Edinburgh, Apr. 6. Yesterday a Taylor stood at the Cannon-gate Church door the time of convening the congregation, with his crime written on his forehead, which was, that he had a long time been guilty of personating a Clergyman, by wearing a Gown and Band, and marrying and baptizing. Courant, Apr. 14.

Dublin, Apr. 4. On wednesday last, about 12 o' Clock, Samuel Boyse, Esq; Member of Parliament for Bannow, in the county of Wexford, died at his house in Checquer-lane, of a pain or stitch, which suddenly siezed him on sunday morning in the left side, about the part where he some time ago received a wound in a Duel at Waterford. Post Boy, Apr. 11.

* * *

FOREIGN NEWS.

Thursday, April 9.

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from France.

Paris, April 15. N.S. The King being at Mass on Easter tuesday, found himself very faint; but it went off again, and is attributed to his Majesty's keeping Lent. Post Boy.

Nicholas du Ble, Marquis d'Huxelles, minister of state, Marshal of France, Knight of the King's orders, Governor of upper and lower Alsace, Governor of the city of Strasburg, formerly Lieutenant General in the Government of Burgundy, and Governor of the town and citadel of Chaon-sur-saone, died here the 10th instant, in the 79th year of his age. He had been first Ambassador extraordinary and Plenipotentiary in the Congress of Utrecht, minister of the council of Regency, and President of the council for foreign affairs; and in the month of September 1716, the King nominated him a Member of his councils, at which he always (illegible text) till the month of December last, when he desired leave of his Majesty to retire. He has left the bulk of his estate to his nephew the Marquis de Beringhem, first equerry to his Majesty; and has bequeathed several considerable legacies in money and annuities to all his officers and domesticks. His Government of Strasburg is given to the Duke of Berwick; and that of all Alsace to the Marshal du Bourg. Ibid.

Friday, April 10.

Genoa, March 25. N.S. They write from Turin, that on the 19th instant the Princess of Piedmont was brought to bed of a daughter. Courant.

Yesterday arrived the Mail from Flanders.

Peterburgh, March 21. In pursuance of orders brought hither from Moscow, the guard that was left on the house of General Count Jagozinski was yesterday taken off, the Czarina now being perfectly satisfied with the conduct of that Lord, and that he will be promoted to a higher Post in the army. We are in daily expectation to hear of a change in the form of the Government of Provinces that have been conquered from Sweden, which it is thought will be conferr'd on a Counsellor of the Monarchy, and the Czarina has resolved to assure the nobility of Livonia and Estonia, that she will restore them to their ancient privileges. Her Czarish Majesty being resolved to hear the proposals of the Ambassadors of Prince Thomas, she has signify'd to them, that they shall be admitted to audience towards the end of next month, that the may take proper measures touching the affairs of Persia. D. Post.

Saturday, April 20.

Hague, Apr. 14, N.S. The States of the province of Holland have this day resumed their assembly, at which the Grand Pensionary assisted. The Agent of Muscovy has delivered to the States a letter from the Czarina, notifying her accession to the throne of Russia; and has also notified the same to all the foreign Ministers residing here. M. de Dieu, the minister appointed to go to that Court, whose journey was stopt on occasion of the late Czar's death, has been here to receive new instructions, and intends to set out from Amsterdam next week for Moscow. Don Louis d'Acunha, Ambassador from the King of Portugal, is gone to Amsterdam, to adjust some matters with the West-India Company relating to the trade of Guinea; and, 'tis said, those differences are in a fair way of being accommodated. Mr. Wolters, his Britannick Majesty's Agent at Rotterdam, died last night. Gazette.

Monday, April 13.

Yesterday arrived the Mails due from France and Holland.

Paris, Apr. 19. N.S. Upon Easter day at noon the Abbot de Goazennot, Chaplain to the King, and Abbot of Chativay in the Diocess of Bourges, died suddenly in the Church of Nuns du Cherche, after having said Mass. Courant.

A Gentleman and a Lady of quality have been lately siezed and carried to the Bastile. Ibid.

'Tis thought the Woman, whose husband was long since hanged, and lately pardon'd, will be confin'd the rest of her days for some Forgeries she produced upon the trial, to make sure of her 2d Husband; among which was a certificate of her first husband's death. Ibid.

They Write from Hanover, that the King of Great Britain and the Prince of Wales were expected there in June, and that it was believed that his Britannick Majesty would go to Berlin, where the marriage of that Prince with the Princess Royal of Prussia would then be celebrated. Ibid.

Tuesday, April 14.

Marsailles, Apr. 12. N.S. Eight men of war and 6 gallies are ordered to be got ready here and at Toulon by the middle of next month, and 20 battalions are to be embarked; they are to wait at the Isles of Hieres, for the Spanish fleet, and from thence to proceed together. D. Jour

Wednesday, April 15.

Yesterday arrived a Mail from Holland.

Hague, Apr 21. It is written from Spain, that they continued their military Armaments with the utmost diligence, and that all things were to be ready for the imbarkation against the Marquess de Spinola's return from the Court of France, whither he was gone to concert with the Ministers of the Allies of Seville the Operations of the ensuing Campaign; that the Spanish Fleet was to be reinforced by several men of war and other vessels, as well English as French; and that in case the Emperor persisted in his resolution to oppose the introduction of Don Carlos into Italy with Spanish Troops, the King of France would send a strong Army into that Country to support the Spaniards. Daily Post.

The General Shipping LIST.

Ships arriv'd at and sail'd from Great Britain, from April 8, to 15.

Arrived.

Ships Captains From For

Ap. 6. Seaflower. Vir Jamaica

8 (illegible text) Merc. Finch South Carol.

Ann Dimmock Canaries

2. Mermaid France S. Sebastian

Jolliffe Jolliffe Pool Ireland

Concord Spelman Malaga Hamburgh

Townshend Packet Boat in 5 days Corunna.

6. Mary Ann Brown Carolina

7. Lydia Condy Boston Hamburgh

Lilly Townsend London Lisbon

Will. & Mary Robinson Topsham Newfoundla.

Dartmouth.

Younger Dimper Flushing Jamaica

Southampton.

9. Hopewell Curtis Cork

Endeavour Bonomay Guernsey

Concord Spelman Malaga

Portsmouth.

5. Prince William Shepheard Hamburgh

Dover.

9. Ruby Colwell Carolina

Joseph Knowler Oporto

10 Betty & Mary Southern Malaga

11 Content Johnson New York Hamburgh

Somers Hillier Carolina

Downs bound home.

7. Charming Peg. Cornish Oporto

Cross Russel Jamaica

Peterborough Nansum Leghorn

James Goodw. Crockat ditto

Draper Leech Chester

Edw. & Mary Durham Canaries

Canterbury Judewin N England

11. St. Secilan Jordan Oporto

Vineyard Greenier ditto

Gravesend, bound home.

6 Bologne Hamilton Bologn

Tho. & Rebecca Bowles Malaga

Delight Taylor Rotterdam

7 Folkstone Wood Lisbon

Charles Querne Alicant

8 Warren Phillips Leghorn

Abra. & Arthur Bray Oporto

10 Elizabeth Martin Lisbon

Charming Peg. Cornish Oporto

Tho. Samuel King Lisbon

12 Peterborough Nansum Leghorn

Will. & Mary Carr Norway

Mary Guerin Dunkirk

Cross Russell Jamaica

13 Catharine Walker S. Remo

Qu. Caroline Scott Carolina

Sailed

Ships. Captains. For

Dartmouth.

3 Dolabella ——— Guernsey

9 Barker Bacon N. England

Gravesend, bound out.

6 Lady Mary ——— Holland

Justice Hollis ditto

Princess Royal Perryman Petersburg

America Bell Barcelona

Royal Vineyard Brown France

7 Ostend Packet Jo. Worthell Ostend

Joseph & Isaac Burdon Barbados

Lady Mary How Cork & Jama.

Globe Moore Gibraltar

Owners Supply Hooper ditto

10 Lawrence Hooper Riga

Dolphin Nairne

Friends Goodw Stock

Providence Beech Vigo

Peggy Drilden Petersburgh

Marygold Haley Sound

Anthony & Dor. Otto ditto

America Noble N. England.

Marmaduke Areskine Lisbon

St. Anthony Trevallo Spain

Richmond Hutton Holland

Rummil Hendricks Hamburgh

12 Qu. Caroline Webb Guiney

(illegible text) Merchant Craswatt Leghorn

Hunter (illegible text) Jamaica

Dove Burn ditto

Downs bound out.

6 Pr. Fred. Packet ——— Lisbon

8 Truelove Graham Carolina

William Braund Oporto

American Bell Barbadoes

Philippa Osbourne Falmouth

Alexander Kenneday Gibraltar

10 Richard Ramsdale Oporto

Isabella Clear Lisbon

Orphan Burford ditto

Joseph & Isaac Burton Barbadoes

12 Edw. & Eliz. Durham

Providence Stewart Dublin

Wind at Deal April 7, S.W. 8, N. by E. 9. W. by N. 10. N. 11. S.W. 12. W. 13. N.W.

The Course of the Exchange.

Amsterdam 34 4 a 5

Ditto at Sight 31 1

Rotterdam 34 5

Antwerp 35

Hamburgh 33 1

Paris at Sight 32 1 half

Bourdeaux at sight 32 1 4th

Cadiz 42 5 8ths a 1 half

Madrid 43 a 2 7 8ths

Bilboa 42 3 4ths

Leghorn 51 5 8ths

Genoa 54 3 4ths

Venice 49

Lisbon 5s. 6d. 1⁄2

Porto 5s. 5d. 1⁄4

Dublin 12 1 4th

Prices of Goods at Bear Key on Monday.

per Quarter Wheat 18 to 26

Rye 12 to 14

Barley 11 to 14

Oats 9 to 14

Horse Beans 17 to 22

Hog Peas 17 to 20

Boiling Peas 22 to 24 6

Pale Malt 17 to 21

Brown Malt 17 to 20

Tares 20 to 26

Coals 23s. to 23s. per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 20s. to 28s. per Hundred.

Hops 1729 30s. to 50s. per Hundred.

Rape Seed 14l. to 14l. 15s. per Last.

On Tuesday Stocks were

South-Sea 102 5 8ths. Annuities 107 1 8th. Bank 14l. 1 4th, without Dividend. Bank Circulation 7 l. Premium. India 187 3⁄4. Three per Cent. Annuity 95 3 8ths. African 44. Royal Exchange Assurance 94 London Assurance 12 1 half. York Buildings 16 5 8ths. South English Copper 3l. 13s. Welch ditto 1l. 13s. South Sea Bonds 4l. 3s. Premium. India Bonds 5l. ditto.

* * *

ADVERTISEMENTS.

This Day is published,

Printed on a superfine Paper, in two Volumes in Quarto,

SOME Observations made in travelling through France, Italy, &c. in the Years 1720, 1721 and 1722. Containing a large and particular Account of the most remarkable Curiosities in those Countries, as well such as relate to their Manners, Customs, religious Orders, Ceremonies, &c. as likewise of their Architecture, Paintings, Sculpture, and other Antiquities, which are esteemed most worthy of the Observation of an English Traveller. With some short Remarks on the Air, Soil, Productions, Trade, Manufactures of several Places, occasionally interspersed. By Edward Wright, Els illustrated with 40 curious Drawings, design'd upon the Spot by the Author, and engrav'd on Copper by the best Hands.

Printed for Messieurs Ward and Wicksteed in the Inner Temple Lane.

* * *

This Day are Publish'd,

Printed together in 8va exactly from the Dublin Copies. Price 6 d.

I.A LIBEL on Dr. DELANY and a certain great Lord, by Dr. Sw———t. 2. An Epistle to his Excellency the Lord Carteret, by Dr. D———y. 3. An Epistle on an Epistle, or a Christmas Box for Dr. De———y 4. Dr. Swift's Proposal for preventing the Children of poor People from being a Burden to their Parents or County, and for making them beneficial to to their Country.

N.B. There is a spurious Edition of this Collection, Printed for A. Moore, first published under the Title of A Satire, &c. and since twice altered, in Imitation of the above, and tho' presented to be a second Edition, contains the Errors of the first, and is still incorrect. The key of this Libel will be added to the next Piece of this Author which shall come over, and will be published by Capt. Gulliver.

Printed for Captain Gulliver near the Temple, and sold at the Pamphlet Shops.

Where may be had, the third Edition, of

Cadenus and Vanessa, or the Judgment of Venus. A Poem. By Dr. Swift. Price 4 d.

* * *

Books printed and sold by John Brotherton at the Bible in Cornhill.

Life of Oliver Cromwel, 8vo.

Collection of Novels, 12mo 6 Vol.

D'Anois Tales of the Fairies, 3 Vol. 12mo.

Free Thoughts on Religion.

Pilgrim's Progress in 8vo, with Cuts, 2 Vol.

Spectators, 8 Vol.

Prideaux Connection, 4 Vol.

Musical Misc 4 Vol. 8vo.

The Dancing Master, by Mr. John Essex, 4to.

Boyer's Telemachus, 12mo

Gay's Fables, 8vo.

Gordon's Geog. Grammar.

Boyer's Dictionary in 4to, or 8vo.

Blais's Sermons, Vol. 8vo.

Shakespear's Plays

Addison's Works, 4 Vol.

Lockyer's Trade to India

Abelard's Letters

Garth's Ovid, 2 Vol.

Plutarch's Lives, 8 Vol

Don Quixot, 4 Vol.

Guardians, 2 Vol.

Ovid's Epistles

Dryden's Virgil

* * *

This Day is published,

THE Merchant. A Naval Lyrick, on Trade. Navigation, and Peace.———Designed to give a new, but just Idea of the Pindaric Ode, and to shew the Scripture-style of the Prophets highly proper for it.

Printed for Lawton Gilliver at Homer's Head against St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet-street.

Where may be had,

Two Epistles to Mr. Pope, concerning the Authors of the Age, by the Author of the universal Passion. Also

A new Edition of the Art of Politicks.

Likewise a new Edition of the Dunciad Variorum, with some additional Notes and Epigrams.

* * *

This Day is published,

THE NURSE'S GUIDE; or, a right Method of bringing up young Children. To which is added, An Essay on preserving Health and Long Life; with a Treatise on the Gout.

By an eminent Physician.

Printed for John Brotherton at the Bible in Cornhill, and Lawton Gilliver at Homer's Head in Fleet-street.

Where may be had,

A General System of Hydrostaticks and Hydraulicks, philosophical and practical. An Enquiry into the Original and Rise of Springs: Draughts and Descriptions of the best Engines for distributing Water for the supply of Country Seats, Cities, &c. illustrated and explained by 60 copper Cuts. Done by the best Hands. In 2 Vols. in 4to. By Mr. Switzer.

* * *

This Day is Publish'd,

THE LIFE of the Right Rev. Dr. White Kennett, late Lord Bishop of Peterborough, with several original letter of the late Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr. Tennison; the late Earl of Sunderland; Bishop Kennett, &c. and some curious original Papers and Records, never before published. And Also

The Foreigner's Guide: Or, a necessary and instructive Companion, both for the Foreigner and Native in their Tour through the Cities of London and Westminster. Giving,

1st. A general Description of these two Cities, with an Account of their respective Government.

2dly. A Description of the Royal Palaces, Noblemans Houses, publick Buildings, Churches, streets, Squares, and the most remarkable Places in and near the famous Metropolis: With an Account of the Inns of Court, Royal Society, publick Walks, Diversions, remarkable Days, Court Days, Post Days. And,

3dly. A Description of the several villages in the Neighbourhood, as Chelsea, Kensington, Richmond, Greenwich, Woolwich, Hampstead; and also others more remote, viz Hampton-Court, Windsor, Oxford, Cambridge, Blenheim, New-Market Horse Races, Epsom, Tunbridge, Bath. And,

4thly. An Account of the Rates of Coaches, Watermen; and also the Rates of Post Horses, with the Roads to Dover and Harwich.

Very useful and entertaining both to Foreigner and Native, and done into English and French.

Where may be had,

LOVE LETTERS on all Occasions, lately passed between Persons of Distinction. Collected by Mrs. Eliz. Haywood,

Pleasure with Sorrow, Peace with War allay'd,

Liberty fetter'd, Hope by Fear dismay'd;

Imbitter'd Honey, Earnest mix'd with Play,

Are Love! the Emblems of thy sov'reign Sway.

Printed for, and sold by Francis Cogan, at the Middle-Temple Gate in Fleet-street.

* * *

LONDON: Printed for Capt. Gulliver and F. Cogan near the Temple, Mr. Jackson in Pall-Mall, and J. Brotherton near the Exchange, and Sold by J. Roberts in Warwick-Lane, where Letters and Advertisements, &c. are taken in. [Price Two Pence.]

