Numb. 28.

The Grub-street Journal.

Thursday, JULY 16, 1730.

Zk. NMavius, having been deputed by the

i Society to attend the publick Commence

; ment at Cambridge, made his report this

i Evening. He expressed much aifhke to

; the greatest part of the Exercice: and re-

ceived bur littie tatista¢tion, except from the Behaviour

of the learned Rraius Proressorn of Divinity. The first

Question, which the Doctor of Divinity had undertaken

to detend, was this, 4dultis Sacramenta rite percipicnti-

bus Divina Gratia corfertur. The Reiponden, having

extolled the great Learning and Abilites of the Pro-

fessor, ¢ecared he was under terrible apprehentions of

engaging wich such an Antagonist, and expected no better than to fal {oon in fo unequal a combat. But the

good Professor, out of his singular Humanity, was

pleased nor to put forth all his strength: tho” he pro-

duced some weighty arguments against the words of the

Question. He observed very learnediy, that Sacramentum

signified an oath; and was erroneously used in the fame

sense with the Greck word purzyecvt and that Dirs-

na gratia Was not to be found in the New Testamenr,

but xaeus 2 Orcs. The Respondent would fain have

evaded the force of these Arguments, by anf{wering that

he expected to have disputed about things, and not about words: and pretended to vindicate the afe of the

word Sacramentum, from the authority of the Ecclesiastical Writers. He endeavoured allo to prove that

Divina Gratia was the fime with yéeis 2 O8.

The second Question was Hiforia miracslorum Christs

ad litcram eft interpretanda. To this the learned Professor objected the Devil’s carrying our Saviour up to

the top of the Mountain, and shewing him all the

kingdoms of the world in a moment cf time: which

cou'd not possibly be understood literally. This the Re-

{pondent evaded, by observing, that it wes a miracle

nor of Christ, but the Devil; and fo did not afteét his

Question.

The foregoing Exercice tock up the morning of Mon-

day, Juy 6. The Afternoon began with a Ph.Jolophy

A&, which was introduced by a learned and elegant

Speech of the Senior Proétor. Mr. \ avius told the

Society, it was impoilible to give a justreiation of that

Speech, without painting the g-fture, and imitating the

voice, of that great Orator. Having complimented the

Oxontans, and told them that the greatc/t man among

them is my Lorp Oxrorp, he proceeded to this pur-

pose. § We indced have our Hereticks among us, our

* WooLtston, and one who lives, and comes into the The-

atre: not but that you have your Tinparr too. ATHA-

NASIUS Encountered the Hereticks of his Century: and

our WATERLAND, no le{sa man, eng2ges the Hereticks

of his time. A Scholar of WATERLAND’s is now go-

ing to dispute, who is as conversant with NewrTon,

as WaTerLanp with the Fathers.

Mr. Mavius passed over the other parts ef the Exer-

Cice of that anc ihe day following, as having nothing

very remstkable. Only he said, he cou'd not omit the

Mention of one thing, which he undurfteod liad given

offence to many Members of this iluftrious Society. The

Doctor of Physick, when he moucted the Roftrum,

to oppofz the Batchclor, conc.uded with addressing him-

{elf to the Respondent in the following words. ‘ Nec

* quid reitat dicendum, nifi ut te (Juvenis Agscutario

€ dilecte) paucis compe lirem; & gratularer ob gradum,

* quem brevi confecuturus es: Gradum non fictum,

non fucatum, non commentitium, non tralatitium,

non umbratilem, & tantim non mullum; ted Acade-

micum : non pretio inhonefto, non precibus, non con-

ditionibus, non follicitationibus, & mille nefcio quibus

ineptiuncu'is; fed labore indefeffo, fed fudore pa'eitrico

acquilitum : non denique clam, aut (quod pamarium

eft) ab Aulici cujufcunque indulgentia concefsum; fed

publice, fed proprio Marte, post ingenuum certamen,

& non indecoro vulnere reportatum.

He farther observed, that some of the Verses made on

this occasion, were atter the Grubzan manner: bur that

in one Copy, to his great concern, this Society was

openly abuted.

a .@a na «a

a a

a“

Adfis, Phoebe, precor. Fruftra tam fape vocanti

Jam tandem, Pater, aufcultes.— Pater ? inguit Apoiio.

Tu mea progenies? mox jaétet_ me quogue Patrem

Infimus iftetuus Frater Tispatpus: at odi, &

Arcco Caulidicos. Cudas miterabile carmer,

Si vis; fed cudas fine me, ficut tuus eft mos.

Et meus ett, & erit. Vos o charitlima Fratrum

Pestura, nofrorum longe o pars maxima Vatumys

Oui, Phasbo, Mutis, Natura, D Deabuique

Ormnibus invitis, audetis feribere; mecum

Maéti eltete, ‘ iri fortes. Manet inteyra nobis

Gloria, non suspectus honos, quem pallida lubes

Tnvidie attingat. Parnettus, Brocmus, & omnes

Portaves Phacbo fua debent carmina: Nobis

Non ita Quod facimus, noftrum eft

The Society returned thank: to Mr. Mayius; and

wished, that he had been more particular in his report.

Having seen published in the Fournals of the Repwd-

lick of Letters, an Epitaph on Sir Isaac Newton, by

Mr. Pore, falsely printed; we believe it will not be un-

acceptable to the Publick, to give them a true Copy

of it.

Isaacus Newronius :

Queem Immortalem

T:Rantur Zimpus, Natura, Calum:

Morsta'em,

Hoc marmor fatetur.

Al! Nature and its Laws lay hid ix Night:

God said, Let Newron be. And All was Licut.

The following Letter came from our Icarned Correspon-

dent, Who communicated to the Society the ingenious

emendations of some places in Mitton’s Paradis, Loft,

which have raised in usa desire to receive more from

the fame Tand.

SIR, Fuly 10, 1739.

T a conversation where I was lat night, there was

a good cei] of tuk of Mr. Pore, We all agreed

in the man, that he was an excellent Poet: but one

of the Gentlemen took tha | berty to fay, that he hed

got more by his labours, how great and ufetul foever,

than he deterv’d, YT wasof another opinion quite, and ane

{we'd with Vircit, Nov esuidem inVide’y miror Magis.

I put anend to the dispute by calling for MartiaL; who, 1

reuwwember’d, has an Epigram to his triend Severus, up-

on one Cakinus, who envied him, and was ready to

hang himself : not because he was readand admired all

the world over; but because he had got enough by his

voetry to buy a country House, and was got tree trom

tie plague of riding hackney any longer.

Martial Epig. Lib. VIII. Ep. 61¢

Ivet Carinus, rumpitur, turit, plorat ;

kit querit altos, unde pendeat, ramos:

Non jam quod orbs cantor & legor toto ;

Nec umbilicis quod decorus & cedio

Spargor per omnes, Roma quas tenet, gentes:

Sed quod fub urbe rus habemus xflivum ;

Vehimurque mulis, non, ut ante, conduttis.

Quid imprecabor, O Severe, liventi?

Hoc opto, Mulas habeat, & suburbanum.

These verses read, we had more disputing than before

about the meaning of the last line, and the acumen of

the Epigram. 1 hte wrangling, and oflerd to fend it

to you tor your opinion; you having, upon occasion,

shewn your self a Scholar, and a Critic.

Yours, B T.

Upon supposition, that this is the true reading, we do

not fee any sufficient ground fora dispute about the

meaning; which we think Mr. Dactyt has very weil

expiained in the following Imitation.

C pele with envy lies,

Ready to burst, he raves, he cries ;

Knits in a noose the fatal string,

Seeks a high bough on which to swing

Tis not my fame this rage has rais’d,

That through the World I’m read, and prais’d :

Nor that my Works for guineas {9ld,

Shining in Turky wrought with gold,

in every nation {pread my name,

Which e’er has heard Great Britains fame.

But that in Twick’nams cool retreats,

I lye tecure from summers heats 5_

(Where a neat House and Garden jo'n

To gratify cach wish of mine:)

At mm

And that some times I take the air

In my own Chariot and a Pair.

OA Tt, Whar shall 1 Giy,

This envious madneis to repay >

This is my with Obtain may he

Thoit things, and more, he envies me:

A House and Garden recr the Towa

A Carr and Horses of his own;

In profitable pomp and pr 'e,

With plants and traits imcompats’d ride;

And to the Crowd, each iar het-day,

His learning and his wit diipiay,

Bavius.

LONDON.

E.P. The Evening Poff. .

S. FE. St. famessEv Post.

D.P, Daily Post. WE. Wauteball Even. Post.

D.F. Daily Journal. LE. London Evening Post.

Articles of consequence omitted in our last.

Dublix, une 23. A man’s arm wes almot cut off

yesterday by a Butcher. P. Fa’ 22. London,

Sol. Stephen, Gunner’s Mate in the Devonshire, killed

by her Piller jamming his head against her deck 5. 7.3.

W.E———-The Drawer and Taptter at the 3 Pidgeons

at Brentford quarrell’d about a marrow-bone, and the fore

mer stabb’d the latter with a knife g iaches deep. C. 6,

Sf. E.— Some boys washiag in the Thames against

Someifet-house, Jof. Reed fl pt into one of the Sande

banks, and was drowned. P, The Go'den Cob-

ler, felling f:wit in Stocks-market, had his pocket pick’d ;

ot 6 guinces and halfa crown — [éid ——-"ho. Lang-

ton, Appren iceto Mr. Collier ayPerriwig-maker at Lam-

beth, drowred in the Thames, as he was walling bim-

self. C.7. S.J. EE. WB.

Tuursvay, Faly a.

Tuefd. one of the K. of France’s cibinet couriers ar=

rived at the Count de Broplio’s house from Pais, with

dispatches of great moment; and to morrow he is to

return to Paris. ——- Mr. Ange! of Piccadilly had orders

to tend a fet of hotles to Harlow, to meet Sir Roby

Wa pols, who has been fent tor by an express. 2. P,

And last night he arrived in Town. S. #.£.

The R, H. E. of Albemarle, Gent. of the Bedchame -

ber, &c. deligns to go as a voluntier with Don Carlos

into Italy. - 14rd.

Yesterday the L. Commissioners of the Almiralty put

the Prineefs Louisa in commission, end gave the com-

mand to Capt. Digby Dent. /é:d. Capt. Bing, who was

commander of the Louis?, they sppointed to be Come

mander of the Falmouth. [7 £.

Yesterday morn. departed this life at his hou near

Tothill-fields, Brace Muls, Efg; formerly Meinber of Pare

liamenr in Ireland. P.

Tueld. night some Rogues broke into the Wardrobe

of the old Pisy-houlg, and flript gold acd ilver Ice off

the cloaths, to the value ef between 20 and 30], Jhid.

Mond. a cause was heard in Chancery between Mr,

Jacob de David Lop:s Henrignes, Plaine. and Arthur and

Rob. Ingram, Eig; as Executors to Mr. Nat. Herne,

Detendants, relating to contraéts on Old East-India flock,

to the amount of 4500 !. enter: d into between the Plain-

tiff and Mr. Herne: and the Plaint. obtained a Dacrce

tor his remaining proportion, out of the debts and ef-

feéts of the Old Eat India Company, with colts, D. P.

E.P. 8. 7.E.

Tho. Burley, lately committed to the Poultry Comp-

ter, was yesterday admitted to bail, and discharged from

thence. did

Tuefd. 4 jovial Journeymen Bricklayers, at the Bull

Inn in Depttord, drank 30 quarts of Rhenih, 6 quarts

of Port, and 6 bottles of Cyder, besides a contiderable

quantity of Brandy and trong Beer: they had for diunera

couple of Ducks, &c. the whole reckoning wasabout ¢ 1.

C. Courant.

P. Poj- Boy,

which they paid, and returned well home. D.F. E.P.

S.J.E. WE.

The public Commencement is now over, A very

great concourse of people has been here tor 3 days,

Several Noblemen, and abundance of Gentiemen and Las

dies were predent at it, 106 Masters of Arts were crea-

ted; ¢ Drs. of Divinity, viz. Dr. Williams, Dr. Peake;

and Dr.Powell ef S. John’s; Dr. Stebbing of Kath. Hall,

te ie ATT ree

as BR eres eee

and Dr. Farewell of Trinity: Dr. Osbourn of Sidney,

L.L. D, and Dr. Warren of d&:manuel, and Dr, Newdigate

of Caius Coll. Drs. of Physick. P. E.P. S. 7. BE. WE.

The Commissioners of the Turn-p:ke at Hide-park

Corner have ordered, that ail the horses of the Nobility

and Gentry, &c. that go into Hide-park for exercise, shall

for the turare pay the usual toll, S.F7.E

Norwich, Fuly 4. Jof. Abaifci and John Hemmer,

Princes ot Mount Libanus in Syria, arrived here last tuei-

day from Yarmouth, having his Majesty’s Letter, recom-

mending them to all Kings, &c. they and their Prede-

cessors having upwards of 700 years maintained the

Christian religion, and converted some thousands of

Turks: which so far provoked the Bafhaws of Damaf-

cus, Tripoly, &c. that they came by night, and destroyed

their Churches, Palaces, and plantations of Mulberry-

trees, &c. ‘The reigning Prince is rebuiiding the Towns,

whilst the 2 Brothers are, applying to the several Christian

Princes for their affitance. W. E.

Frivay, Fuly to.

Yesterday the R.H. the L. Mayor, &c. laid the foun-

dation-stone of the intended new buildings at S. Bartho-

mew’s Hospital. There was a Copper Plate fixed in a

vacancy of the first stone, with this Inscription. * This

‘ Building was begun by the voluntary fubf{cription of

* the Governors of S.Bartholomew’s|Hospital, in the!4th

© year of the Reign of K. George II. An. Dom. 1730.

* in the Mayoralty of Sir Rich, Brocas, Knt. then Prefi-

* fident of the said Hospital; Sam. Palmer, Eig; Trea-

‘ furer.” Andon the back-fide of the Plate, * Josepho

* Gibbs, Architecto. A parcel of copper half-pence were

put in at laying the stone: the Rev. Mr. Banfon, his

Lorcship’s Chaplain, and Reétor of S. Bartholomew’s,

made a very handsome oration : and above 20 guincas

were given to the workmen. Several Gentlemen that

had subscribed, paid their Subscription-money, about

S00!. C. P. D.P. the Polt-Boy of the 11th gives, as

he tells us, the endorsement on the back of the Inf{crip-

tion-Plate literatim, which is, Jacobo Gibbs Architecto.

E. Kirkall, sculptor in Claro obscuro in{cu'pfit.

By private letters we hear, that the East-India Com-

pany will receive but 1200 bails of cloth this year from

Madras, when they usually had 3 or 40 0. which is

said to be owing to some difference between the white

and black merchants. C,

Yesterday a gen. Council was held at Windsor, when

the R.H.L. Wilmington presided. P.

The fame day died at her Father's house at Clapham

Miss Baker, a beautiful young Lady of 12,0001. fore

tone. Ibid.

This weck Mr. Atterbury, only fon of Dr. Atterbury,

late Bishop of Rochester, arrived here from the East-In-

dies. D. P.

We hear that the matter in dispute between the L,

Vifc. Falmouth and Mrs. Dunch, sole Executrix of her

Mother Mrs. Godfrey, has been determined in her fa-

vour. Jd:d.

Yesterday morn. the body of Mr. Middleton the Coal-

merchant was takenup, near the 9 elms ir. Chelsea-reach,

when the:e was found in his pockets 150 guineas, 2 bank

bills for 601. &e. did.

We hear that the L. of Deloraine, Major Gen. &c. is

appointed Colonel of the Regiment of Horse, lately com-

manded by Lieur. Gen. Maccartney. D. F.

SaturpDay, Fuly it,

On Wedn. ended the Assizes at Abingdon, when 4

Malefaétors were condemned, 2 for horse-stealing, 1 for

robbing on the High-way, and 1 for breaking open a

house, and stealing divers goods; 1 was burnt in the

hand for man-slaughter, and 2 ordered for transporta-

tion, C.

We hear that the K. of France has presented Mr. Al-

derman Parsons with the use of one of his State Coaches,

for the time of his Mayoralty: and the fame is now fit-

ting up, which will be very magnificent. I fleould

think the Grand Monarch would rather give, than lend,

the Alderman one of his Coaches,

Yesterday one Francis Davies was committed to New-

gate for assaulting Ed. White, and giving him a mortal

blow on the fide of his neck, of which he instantly died.

Cc. P. D.P.

The fame day a Brafier and a Bricklayer falling out at

skittler, at the George Ale-house in Drury-lane, the Brae

fier received an unfortunate blow on his temples, which

laid him dead on the spot. C.

The fame day one Mr. Bentham in Great Windmill-

street dropt down dead in an apoplectic fit in Picca-

dilly. P.

Sar. Count Killmanfege, with Baron Sparr, and their

tamilies, arrived at Windsor from Hanover, with a very

great retinue; where they met with a very gracious re-

ception. Ibid.

We hear, that the Governors of S. Thom. Hospital

in Sou thwark have unanimously agreed to make provi-

fion fer the Widows of those; who loft their lives by

emptying the vault. did. .

Laft week died at Durham, the Lady Eden, Relié& of

Sir John Eden, Bar. D.P.

Wedn. died Hen. Greenhaulgh of Brardicfham in

Lancashire, Efg; whose estate of 700], per an. devolves

equally to his Aunt, and to her Sifter’s Daughter. He

died at the house of Will. Bamtord of Bamford, Esq; to

whose youngest Daughter he was to have been married

the next day. Univ. Spedt.

Tuesday night, William Clapham Esq; a Gentleman

of a great estate, died at at his house at Eltham. 4 £.P.

At the Races at Epsom on Tuefd. Mr. Seamer’s herfe,

Bay Strickland, won the 4o guineas; on Wedn. Mr.

Rich’s Galloway the 20; and on Thurs. Mr. Herberts

horse the 30. Ibid.

Col. Hawley is appointed to command L. Harrirgton’s

Regiment of Dragoons; Brigadier Gen. Dalziel, Col,

Hawley’s Regiment of Foot, both in Ireland: Col. Han-

defyd is to have the E. of Deloratnes Regiment of Foot

in G, Britain; and Brigadier Gen. Hill, Col. Handafyd’s in

Minorca, L E. S.F.E.

About 30 fugitive Debtors have within these ¢ days

surrendred themselves into the custody of the Warden

of the Fleet. There has been discharged frem thence

between 8 and goo Prisoners by virtue of the Acts

passed for the relief of Debtors; fo that the number now

confined, does not exceed 236. And’tis remarkable, that

the said Goal hath of late been fo healthful, that no

more than 4 persons have died in it for 20 months last

pat. Ss F.E.

Thurs, his Majesty in Council ordered the Parliament

to be prorogued to Thursday Sep.aq. W.E.

Yesterday, at a general Court of the South-Sea Come

pany, a dividend of 2 per Cent was agreed upon, for

the half year ending at Midsummer : one million of their

Capital having been paid off out of the finking Fund,

being 6 per cent. did.

Wedn. between 9 and 10, a Countryeman was rob-

bed by S. George’s Fields of above gos. x Fellows fet

upon him, 1 feiz’d the bridle, and the other clapt a

pistol to his fide, which he beat away, and gave the

tellow several blows with his whip. They dragp’d him

off his horse, took his money and cloaths, except

breeches, shoes, and stockings, ty’d his hands, and threw

him into a ditch of water: 1 was for shooting him,

but the other would not: the former then broke his

head in many places with the but end of his pistol.

About 6 in the morn. 2 persons coming by relieved

him. 4 E. P.

Thurs. morn. a Butcher was attack’d in Shug-lane,

S. James’s, by 1 Foot-pad, who presented a Pistol, de-

manding his watch and money; but the Butcher making

the best of his way, the Villain fired at him, and the

ball went through the fleeve of his Coat. EZ. P. W. E.

By 2 Foot-pads. S 7. E. L. E.

Tuefd. night Mr. Quinton Kennedy was knocked

down near Fleet-bridge, by 3 Street-robbers, but recover-

ing and making the best of his way, they repeated their

blows, pulled him into an Alley, and robbed him of 5

guineas. S, f. E.

The Lordship and Retory of Welling in Hertford-

shire, worth about 3co |. per ann. being devolved to All

Souls Coll. Oxon, they have conferred them on Dr.

Young senior Fellow. JL. E.

Monpay, Fuly 13.

Ben. Loddington Esq; Conful at Tripoli 30 years died

on Sat. night at 9, at his house in Balinghall-street, aged

73. P. on Friday night, D. P.

Sat. the Invalid out-Pensioners, marked for garrison

at the last examination at Chelsea, began their march for

Portsmouth. did.

This summer a Camp will be formed in Windsor Fo-

rest, for several Regiments of Foot; some of which

have already received orders to march thither. D. ‘¥.

Turspvay, Fuly 14.

Yesterday 2 boats running against one another in

Chelsea-reach, one was overfet, and one Mrs. Hollifon,

and her daughter, a child of 9 months, were drowned.

Ibid.

Laft week died in an advanced age at Midgham in

Berkshire, John Hillersdon of Bush-lane Esq; a very emi-

nent and wealthy merchant, and a good Benefactor to

the Corporasion of Clergy-mens fons, of which he was

a member. He has left the bulk of his estate to his ne-

phew Mich. Hillerfdon Efg; Merchant in Bush-lane, one

of the Treasurers of that Corporation. Jdid.

Laft week his Grace the D. of Buckinghamshire was

confirmed by the L. A. B. of Canterbury. D.P.

lin; and this morning fet out for Windsor.

Sir Charles Hotham arrived here last night from Ber.

W.E.

Laft Sat. Will. Neale, Esq; was married to Miss Bar.

bara Ayres, a beautiful young Lady of between 6 and

700ol. fortune. did.

This morn. the Duke of Buckingham, and the Dut.

chefs his mother, fet out for Dover: Mr. Morrice, the

High Bailiff of Westminster accompanies them to Calaic,

S. F.E. WE.

Yesterday between 2 and 3 in the morning, a Foot-

man belonging to Col. Charteris was robb’'d in New

Bond-street of his Watch, {nuff-box, and money. S.F. 2,

If this Footman procured these unnecessary ornaments by

cogging of dice, there was no harm done, Rob-thicf b, ing

@ lawful Game.

Laft week General Hil!, Brother to L. Masham’s Lady,

who at the beginning of the last Reign, was obliged to

dispose of his Regiment, waited on their Majesties, and

met with a most gracious reception. S. F. E. L.E,

WEDNESDAY, Fuly 15.

Yesterday died in the 6oth year of his age, the rev.

Mr. Doughty, a non-juring Clergyman. He was a

Gentleman eminently distinguished for all those good

qualities, which make a man an ornament to his Pro-

teffion; and was deservedly esteemed and lov’d by all

who knew him. P.

The {sme day Count Kinski, received an express from

the Emperor his Master, which we are intormed con-

tained his Answer to the last Proposals of the Allies of

Seville. Ibid.

Yesterday Christ. Joyce and Tho. Watson were com.

mitted to Newgate tor breaking open ahouse, &c. Ibid.

, Col. Charteris and the E, of Weems were at Windsor,

to take leave of the Court, they being on the point of

setting out for North Pritain. D. P.

Gilb. Lawrence was committed to Newgate on the

oath of Paul Oliver, tor committing the unnatural fin of

Sodomy with him against his conient. Ibid. Paui O-

liver a lad of 15, C.

Mr. Walker gives the following account of the mis for-

tune which has happened to him,————-Laft Friday about

10 at night, Mr. Edwards and my self were mvt by 2

Vilains, at the farther end of the fuft Causeway by Mr,

Woolertons, They tuffer’d me to pais, and stopping my

Companion, demanded his money; upon which IJ drew

my iword, and stabbed one of the Villains; and repeat-

ing my thrust, he catch’d hold of my iword, and recl-

ing feil into the ditch, and pulled me after him, giving

me a wound in the breast, and a flight one on the belly

with a knife. The other Villain, seeing what diftre{s

his Comrade was in, quits Mr. Edwards (who immedi-

ately ran away) and came to his assistance: and as I was

rifling out of the ditch, knock’d me down with a short

stick; and falling upon me, gave me several wounds with

a short poniard, both in my fide and back. He then

threatened to murder me, unless I delivered my {word:

which having ‘done, he rifled my pockets, pulled off my

shoes, and all my cloaths, except Breeches and Stockings;

and in this naked and wounded condition, I came to the

Queens-head in Islington. 2 wounds have penetrated

the cavity of my body. The fellow I stabbed never ap-

peared to me after he fell into the ditch. D. P.

It is written from New England Mar. 30. that the

Small-Pox having broke out about the end of the prece-

ding year, about 300 persons had been inoculated; and

only 2 children and 1 Negro had died out of that num-

ber. D.F.

Extra&t of a Letter to the Author of the Boftcn Ga-

zette, printed in the Courant, Jul.1 4.

SIR, 1 have often said many things against inocu-

lating the Small Pox; and that [ firmly believed it was

not fo fuccefstul a method to cure it, as that now pra-

ctifed by Physicians.

The way to know this would be to take an even num-

ber of persons of all ages, and sexes, and prepare their

bodies alike; and then inoculate one half, and let the other

half take their chance.

Dr. Boy'fton, by his printed account, has loft 2 out

of 72, which is 1 out of 36: and Lin the common

way have only loft 1 out of 43. His have been the

choice of the people, neither aged, norinfirm, nor poor :

some of mine both aged and poor. His have had their

bodies prepared: mine not at all, The Negro woman,

who died under my hands was betwixt €0 and 70,

whom I suppose the Inoculstogs would have hardly

thought a proper person to have inoculated; which if

granted, I have then loft never a one out of 42.

1 am told that many in the inoculated way have bev's

and ulcers upon them; and that some inoculated last

March have it nowin the common way. Nonc of mine

have either boyls or ulcers; and all mankind knows, tha

| eli

Anagenng ee

ern...

An gree

there ig not any such thing as having the Small Pox twice

in the common way of infection. |

Boftom, May 39> 17309. Geo. Steuart.

Edinburgh, Fuly,6. Thursday last, the Lords of Session,

sta full Court, gave judgment in the cause concerning the

right of fucceflion to the dignity of L. Frazer of Tovar,

which had been long contested betwixt the Heir male,

and an Heir claiming wader a Female; which they de-

cided in favour of Simon L. Frazer of Lovat, the Heir

Male. C. &c. 14.

Fuly 7- Yesterday Pardal the Centinel, who lately

killed his Corporal at Leith, was brought to the Justi-

ciary Bar, and pleaded guilty to every article of the In-

diftment. P. D.F. —

Dublin, Fuly4 Their Exceliencies the L. Justices have

signed the warrants for Letters) Patent to be passed un-

der the Great Seal, containing a free pardon to Hump.

Minchen, Gent. for the man-slaughter at large of John

Meagher. P. D. P. 11.——-They have likewise signed

the warrants, &c. tor conferring the dignity of a Baro-

net upon Tho. 'olyneux, Dr. of Phytic, and Physician

to the State here; as likewise upon Ldw. Bayly of

Placenewid in Angefey, aod of Mount Bagnal in the

County of Louth in this Kingdom, [6id. Thursday

night, a young Man and Woman, walking some-

what late behind our Linnen-hall, were met by 3 or 4

Villains, who bruised and stabb’d the Man in several pla-

ces, and then ravished the Woman one after another,

abusing her in a most inhuman manner. Ibid. D. F.

—Laft night Michael Kelso, one of the proclaimed Ca-

yans-Bail, was taken in Caple-street, and committed to

Newgate. P.

Fuly 7. A fine large Tellefcope, worth 100]. is fixed

up in the College Library, by the Rev. Dr.G——t, who

hopes thereby to make several useful discoveries.——-We

hear a Court of oyer and terminer is to be held here

every month, like that at the Old Bailey: which, con-

fidering how rogues multiply here, will be of great fer-

vice to the Publick. D. ‘7. 14.

From the Pegasus in Grub-street.

An Epigram on the celebrated Print, inscribed to Sir

R W » dent to the Society by an un-

known Hand.

Three Frenchmen, grateful in their way,

y Sir R ’s Glory wou'd dilplay;

Studious, by Sifter-Arts, t?advance

The Honour of a Friend of France:

They consecrate to W ’s Fame,

PiGture, and Verie, and Anagram.

With Mottos quaint the Print they dress,

With Snakes, with Rocks, with Goddesses,

The Lines beneath the Subjeé fir,

As well for Quantities, as wit.

Thy Glory, W , thus enroll’d,

E’en Foes delighted may behold.

For ever sacred be to Thee,

Such Sculpture, and such Poetry !

Mr. Poppy observed, that there was very great reason

for the wish contained in the 2 last lines; to make

which piainer, he proposed to add to them the 2 fol-

lowing. .

For nothing but thy Name can raise

Such Panegyric into Praise.

Our Brother The Unrversat SrecraTor having in his

latt Fournal inserted some verses, On Lenocias going to

fapper ac Clarindas, it was thought proper to give here

some various readings from a more ancient Copy, in the

London ‘fournal Fan. 31. Numb. 548. The Title of them

there 1s An Epigram by the E. of C p. Ver. 1. In-

stead of Astronomers, Philosophers. 2. For our Heads,

ones Head. 3. For telling ms, telling one. 4. For by

Dolphins, a Dolphin. 8. For ber Passport, a Passport:

For round her, to her. 129. When omitted: for Clarin-

da, Poulteneys. 1g. For Ceftos, Cefius. 16. For Lenocia ,

Richmond: for Venus, her,

The Letter from the Weexty Meptey was received;

the consideration of which, for want of room, muitt

be deferred till our next.

This is to give notice to all curious, inquisitive Perfor,

who delight in reading Remarkable Cafes, 1» which there

is some (mall :ruth, well brewed and dashed with lies, that

there is w certain PiraticaL Grus- Street Printer,

newly turn'd Collector and Publifber of such Remarkable

Cafes: upon reading of which, if any Persons think theme

selves cheated and imposed on, they can have 0 reason to

blame this Society, fixce thy ordered this Caveat to be

entered in their Journal.

FOREIGN NEWS.

Tuurspvay, Fuly 9.

© Versailles, Fuly7. N.S. The K. went from hence

© yesterday for Compiegne: the Q. cry’d for some hours

* afterwards, as the frequently does at parting. They

* write constantly to each other twice a week. P.

* Paris, Fuly8, The 4th fell such a storm of hail,

* that within a few leagues of this place some stones

* were found as big as pullets eggs, and weighed 10

* ounces: some here near as big as wainuts. M. de la

* Grave, a Half-pay Officet, whole strength of Genius

* lies in the eating way, bas contrived a project to bring

* ortolans alive from Bourdeaux hither: 18:0 dozen are

* already arrived in good health, 141d.

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from France, and one

from Flanders.

Lisbon, Fune, 8. N.S. On the 6th there was a featt

at Court, it being the Anniversary of the P. of Brazils

birth-day, who hee entered into the 17th year of his

age. C. )

Madrid, Fune,27. Their Catholic Majesties, &c. are

still at Cazaila, where they enjoy a perfect health, The

King’s ordinance has been published at the Groyne, for-

bidding the entrance of any English packet-boat into that

port, until fhe has taken a Spanish guard on board, who

is to remain there till the departs; to hinder the clan-

destine trade, which the Matters of those thips, or the

Paffengers might carry on, without that Precaution.

Ibid, P. D.F. - The Transports are failed from Cadiz to

Barcelona, where the Kings Commissaries are already ar-

rived. C. D.F.

Paris, Fulyts, On the 6th about 10 at night, the

K. arrived at the Castle of Compiegne. C.

Cadiz, Fune,27. This morn. tailed the Gaileons, be-

ing 6 men of war, and 15 merchant ships, pretty full

loaded, but not rich, P. 16 merchant ships. D.f. An

advice-boat, lait from the Havanna, brings ah account,

that our Guarda Costas have taken 4 Frigates, and § floops

belonging to the Dutch; also an English Sloop and a

{fnow. They were very rich, computed worth 309,0c0

dollars. A fine new man of war of 70 guns, just built

at the Havanna, was loft in April last, going trom thence

to La Vera Cruz. Jbid.

Leghorn, Fuly,1. Several ships are preparing to fail

for Barcelona, in order to enter into his Catholic Maje-

{ty’s service. The Imperial Troops grow numerous on

the frontiers of this Dukedom, and threaten toenter, on

the first.news of the Spaniards imbarking their Troops:

which has made such who reiide here, as are Subjects to

the Allies of Seville, to think of removing in time to

Genoa, Ibid.

Naples, Fune,z0. It is written from Leoniffa, a

Town in the Province of Abruzzo, that on the 12th

they had a most violent hurricane, toliowed by an earth-

quake, that had thrown down above half the houses,

and that above 3co inhabitants had been buried under the

ruins. D.P.

Hague, July, 11. The Colonels of the Regiments,

out of which the 2 Batallions deligned for Italy are cho-

fen, are now here, and also the Undertakers for the

Transports: and the said Batallions are to be forthwith

ordered to march towards the Texel, to be more at

hand for the imbarkation. E.P. Fulyig. We are told;

that an agreement has been made with France, that the

Austrian Netherlands shall not be attacked; and that, for

this reason, the Republick makes no more haste to rein-

foree the garrisons oi the Barrier. S. F. E.

Paris, Fuly, 10. A strange accident has happened at

Caen. A rich Merchant apprebending his Daughter

would marry against his consent, shut her up in a Con-

vent. Her Paramour, by a letter conjured her to meet

him at such an hour in the night, at the Garden-wall,

where he would attend to carry her off. The young

Lady embraced the proposal; and the Gentleman caine,

and threw over a rope-ladder. She had but just fixed ir,

and was going to mount, when the dogs they let lonfe

in the night tore her to pieces. ‘The Gentleman has not

been heard of since. E.P. S.7.E. WE,

Fripay, fuly to.

Milan, Fune,20, The number of Troops in this

Country is increased to upwards of 30,000 men. D.F.

SaTuRDAY, Fuly 1k.

Milan, Fune,21. In cafe of a war, which seems

very near at hand, the Emperor will have an army of

80,000 men in Italy, to bafle the enterprizes of the

Allies of Seville. C.

Nifmes, June, +3. The Smal'-Pox has been fo fatal

here for some weeks, that 2000 persons have died. Some

days ago, the gates were shut up; and the officers of

justice made a general search of the houses of the Prote-

{tants and new Converts, and took away all the arms

and books they could find: the books they burnt. did.

© paris, Fuly, The Marquis Abbati, who dealt a

« little treacherously by Card. Cofcia, and caused his rich

‘ furniture to be brought into the Castle of St. Angelo,

« has been fo touched with that action, that he has run

| a peaticted ad "

* diftraéted, and is carefully watched in his chamber. ?.

Paris, Fuly, ts.. We have aa odd story here, of &

certain Savoyard who officiated convent, in the ca-

pacity of a thoe-cleaner, a profe in which his coun-

trymenare observ'd to be great attifts, who having bought

a Rope for fix Sols; thew’d it to 4m acquaintance, who

told him the people had cheated him, tor that he might

buy {uch an one for four Sols; he went back to the shops

which was at a considerable distance, and expostulated

about the price of the commodity, ‘till he got two Sols

return’d him; after which he went quietly home, and

apply’d the rope to the ufe for which he bought it; ia

a word, he hang’d himself with it.—-We have another

{tory altogether as strange; a person who was confin’d

in the Chatelet for debt, was observ’d to be a little me-

lancholy, a os very common in France, upon which

the keepers refused him the use of knife or tork, left he

should be tempted to do himself a mischief; but he de-

fired he might have some cherries to eat, accordingly a

pound was brought him every day; he wove the {talks

of these cherries together in fach a manner, that in a

little more than a week he made a rope, with which he

hang’d him({elf; fee what industry will do. The French,

upon these two accidents, fay that their people are be-

ginning to take up English customs,

Monpayj Fuly 13.

Yesterday arrived the Mails due from France and Holland.

Constantinople, May, 14. N. S. The Grand Seignior,

who has been ill for a year past, is grown fo much bet-

ter, that tis hoped his health will be perfectly re-eftae

blished. Prince Selim, one of his fons, about 15 years

of age, is going to Mecca to forward it. Several Prin-

ters are come from Marseilles, to work in the Grand Vi-

fier’s Printing-House in the Seraglio. C. &c. In the

Daily Journal of this day, P. Selim is called only fon to

his Highness; and yet at the latter end of the fame arti-

cle mention is made ef Mahomet Hereditary Prince of

Turkey.

Milan, aay 1. We would have march’d some Troops

into the Dutchy of Tuscany; but the Great Duke ftre-

nuously oppos’d it} whereupon an express has been

dispatched to Vienna, to acquaint the Emperor with it. P.

Vienna, Fuly 5. The Emperor having received advice,

that the Court of Spain had dispatch’d an express to the

King of Sardinia, to acquaint him that the Spanish Fleet

was upon the point of failing with a good Body of Land-

Forces; his Imperial Majesty has fent orders to General

Merci, to form an army of 40,°.0e Men, and to aét as

he shall judge proper. "Tis confirm’d, that the Emperor

will not in the least depart from the letter of the qua-

druple Alliance, C. &c.

Paris, Fuly 19. Our last Advices from Barcelona in-

form us, that M. Sartinez, Intendant of the Province

of Catalonia, had hired Transport Ships, and French and

Gonoeze Vessels, for ¢0>,000 Pieces of Eight per Month;

besides the Eng'ifh Ships that were expected there; to

transport the Spanish Troops into Italy, to the number

of 42,000 Men; that he had already put Provisions on

board for 3 months, Don Joseph Patinho having remit-

ted to him 1,000,000 of Pieces of Eight for that pur-

pose; and that they expected the General Don Lucas

Spinola to be present at the Imbarkation. D.P. &e.

Vienna, Fuly, 5. M. Lauzinski, Minister of Russia,

has had a conference with the Counts Staremberg and

Wurmbrand, at which M. Schroder, Privy Counselior

to the D. of Mecklembourg was present. And it is now

believed, that if the D. wiil write a submitlive letter to

his Imperial Majesty, and promise to pay what is due

to the Troops of Execution, the Imperial Commission

will be recalled. D. P.

Gombroon in Persia, fan. 24. We have just received

advice from the English Resident at I{pahan, chat King

Thamas was in possession of that city; and that the

Usurper Ezref (after the lofs of two fet Battles) was

fled with his fhatter’d forces§ Some fay ke is since ta-

ken by the Persians, and put to death, others fay, that

he is retired among the Usbeck Tartars; but all agree,

that K. Thamas is in fu'l possession of his Dominions,

except what has been taken by the Turks and Mufco-

vites, which they will hardly be able to maintain, The

King has caused new Abafles of Silver to be coined up-

on his Reftauration; and trade will undoubtedly revive

and flourish by degrees, as formerly. Our Chiet had

been to wait upon the King and his General Thomas

Cooley Cawn, who received him with great civility

and distinétion, and p:otnis’d to confirm the Company’s

Grants and Privileges in as tull and ampe a manner as

they enjoy’d them under any ot his Predecessors. P.

D. P. D. 7.

Tuecspvay, fuly tq. |

Augsbourg, Fuly, 6. Yesterday about 5 in the morn,

we had the mott violeat of thunder, lightning and hail,

ae

that ever Wit Known. All the gardens, as well within

as withoutt he'Ciry, were: entirely destroyed. The Vi!-

lages of "Prefern, Leufterfhoffen, Goggengen, and Stat-

bérgen, were totally roy’d. In thort, all the fruirs

of the earth are destroy’d in such a manner, that the [n-

habitints are’ reduced to the utmost desolation. D, p,

Santa Crux in South Barbary, Func, t. We have jufk

now by an Express received advice, that Muley Abda'la

was ict out for Mequincz with an army of 50 co blacks,

iv*order to reduce the Country of Suz to his obedience.

L.E

This day arrived the Mail from Hoiland,

Leghorn, July, 1. It is written from Barce ona, that

the K. of Spain’s Commissaries were arrived there to

fertie the imbarkation of the Troops; part of which were

already on board the Transport Ships. . £.

Hazue, Fuly, 21. It is written from Vienna, that

the Court bad fent orders to the Governour of Fiume,

to transport to Porto-Longone 50 pieces of heavy Can-

non, with 20 mortars, and all forts of ammunition of

war; and that the Merchants of Triefte and S. Viet,

had been forbid to fend any Quick-silver into Spain. Idid.

On Tuesday Stocks were

South-Sea 103 & gths, 103 1 8th a1 4th, for the

Opening South Sea Annuity 106 7 ths. Bank 141

thalf. India 187, 186 3 4ths, 127 + 4th, 186 34ths,

a7, for the Opening. Thice per Cent. Annuity 94 1

4th, African 45. Royal Exchange Ailurance (19c|.

paid in) 94. for the Opening. London Assurance (13 1.

paid in) 12. York Buildings 18. South Seibonds 41.

12s, Premium. India ditto 51]. 4s. ditto. Million

Bank 108. Bank Circulation 81, Eng'ifh Copper 31.

10s, Welsh ditto 11. r1s.

Royal Assurance opens the 16th inflant, and pays the

Diviaend of 2 per Cent. the zoth.

The Course ef the Exch-nge.

Amsterdam 34 8 Madrid 42 3 8ths

Ditto at Sight 34 526 Bilboa 42

Roiteraam 34 8a9 Leghorngs 1 stha ich

Antwerp 35 a1 Genoa $4 3 8tis

Hamburgh 33 2 Venice 4)

Paiisat fight3z thalfa3 8ths | Lisbon 5 5.6.

Bourdeaux at fight 32 3 8ths | Portoss. 5.1 4th

Cadiz 42 3 tths Dublin 19 2 4th

Prices of Goods at Bear Key uu Monday.

per Quarter per Quarter

Wheat 20 to 30 Hog Peas —— 36 to 20

Rye -—— 12 to 16 Boiling Peas——20 to 24

Barley ——-13 to 18 Pale Malt —26 to 28

Oats =<— 12 to 13 Brown Malt— z0 to 26

Horie Beans 20 to 26 Tares ———-20 to 23

Coals 23s. to 26s, per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 — 29s. to 39s. per Hundred.

Hops 1729 — 43°. to 60s, per Hundred.

Rape Seed 15], te 1:6). 10s. per Laff,

ADVERTISEMENTS.

Jutt published,

[In O€.vo vound on Calf.)

HE Act of Heraldry. Containing L. The Original

and Universality of Arms 2nd Fnfigis, with the

Use and Neceliity; their Blazon, Diitibution, Abatcmcnis,

and Kewards ot Honour, Il. Of diveric kinds or bie

cotcheons, and of the Scaring or using the Oruinarics in

Coat Armour, UL, Of Coat Armour torm’d of Artificial

Things, whether Civ)i, Keclefiafiical, Military or Mcrine,

such 2s are made by man, or forh:s Uf. IV, Of Charges

in Coat Armour form <i of Corleftials, 2s the Sun, Mocn,

Stars, Angels, &c, Of Vegetabics, as Trees, Flowcis,

Plants, Fruits, &c. Of the Parts ot _Man’s Body, as the

EFancs, Legs, Arms, Heait, &c. Of Animils, a» Lyons,

Tygers, Horses, Stags, &e. in Whole aml in Parts. V, Ot

Chareces from Fows and Birds of all Sorts, in Whole and

Parts. VI. OF Civarves from Fithes of all Kinds, in Whole

andin Parts. VII Ot Charges from Moritrous Animalsyin

Whole and in Pastis) Embelliff’d with For.y Coppe

Platcse, containing above 900 Coats of Arims of tho Nobi-

licy ant -Gentry of Great Britain and Teland, ctiriously

engray.n, with their particular Defc:iptions, and by whom

boine. Interfpers’d with the Natural Hin ory of the {-

veral Specics of Birds, Beasts, Fithcs, Veoetabtes, &

XC

comp ehend-d therein, Togetuer with Occasional Expli-

cations of all the Terms used in the Science of Herald y,

and peculiar thereto. To which is prefix’d, An Alphahc-

tical Lift of the Nem:s of the Families whote Coats 2:e

delineated in the Book, with References tu the Pazes where

they are to be found. Printed for J Osborns ncar Dock-

lead, in Southwark: And Sold by A. Bettcsworth in Pa-

ter-Nofter Row, and F, Cogan at the Middle Temple

Gate, Fleet-street. 1730.

This Day is publish’d..

A Demonstration of some of tie principal Sefions of

Sr Ifgac Newton’s Principles of natural Philosophy.

In which his peculiar Method of treating thar utetul Sub-

j:4t is explained, and applied to some ot the chief Phx-

nomena of the System of the World. By John Clarks,

D. D. Dean of Sarum. Printed for James and -John

Knapton, at the Crownin St, Paul’s Church-yard.

Wiicre may be had,

2, Rohault’s Syitem of Nazu al Philosophy. Tluftra-

td with Dr. Samuel Claik.’s Notes, tek2n most ly out of

Sir Ifaae Newton’s Philofephy. Dune into English by John

Clarke, .D. D, 2 Vo's. Svo.

>, An Enquiry into the Cafe and orgin of natural and

moral Evil. Geing sixteen Sermons preacn’d at Mr. Boyle's

Lecture 1719 and 1720, By Jolin Clarke, 0. D, in 2 vols,

SvO.

4. The Trurh of the Chrifian Religion. By Grotius-

Correéted and illustrated with Notes by M. Le Clerce

Translated by John Clarke, D. D.

Jult piblithed

ROPOSALS for Printing by Subscription x

beautiful and correct kdition of ROBERT!

SJEPHANI Thefturus Lingue Latiae. Compared

With the best Editions ot the Clatlics, tie References ac-

justed and supplied by J. MARWTYN, FLR.S. and

the whole correcicd and reviled from the Press by

R. RUSSEL, M.A,

The great Ufetulnc's of this Work having tender d it

fearce (tho it has potted four Impretfions) that the eft

Edition is now told for «t lait sixteen Pounds, ic is pre-

furncd that the Ke-princing of it, wich theie Imp. ovcinents,

will be very acceptable to all the Learned in Lkargpe

This Work :s to be printed from the lait Edition

(printed at Jysits, containin, 653 Sheets, divided into tou

‘Lomes) and will be ren: | much more fetnl, by ¢.ting

not only the Books but Captus ot the Pivte Auiuios,

and even the Lines of the Pocts3 which beng adapred

to the improved Editions ot the Clafics, We douot not will

be aS agreeable to the Studivus, as lav ious to he Edijrors,

Ie will be printsd in the fame Mann-r, snd 1 ag evod

Paper, as the Spee? cn annexed to che !ropofils,

[he Price to Supbicribers will bo fix Guine:s a Sett in

Shects; only one to be paid down, twoon the Del . ery

f the art Vola (which will contain about 170 Sheets)

and one more tor each of the other three Volt ses,

Some Copics will be p inved ona lareer Pape tor the

ttin Siccts, twoto be paid

glume, two tor the second, one

down, two for the firfi

for the third, and two f

As foen as 2co are

put to Press, .

The Names and Jitics of the Subfeibers will be pre-

fixed to the firit Volume.

When the Subscription is close’, the Price will be rai-

fed to eight Guineas tor the imall Paper, and twelve the

large.

Receipts for the Subscription-Money are signed by a'l

the Proprietors, which they will pry into tho Han's at

Francis Child, F149; Alderman, and return wt to ‘he Subscri-

bers by Christmas next, if there is nor tithe ent Encouraze-

ment to proceed.

Subscriptrons 2re taken in by the

fey, at'the Dove in Pater-Noffer Row;

Piveil’s Head, over-agazinit the New Church in tee Strajd ;

F Covan, at the Mitdle-Temple-Gate, Fleet-S reet 5 and by

the Printers, S. Palmer and 7. Hug gonfon, in Bartholowew-

Cicfe.

tor, the Work shall be

ule i yard

om G

ditors. and 7% Bat-

A Vandenhoeck, at

BOOKS printed tur Jer. Bacloy at the Deve in Parer-

a-_ 7

iY ifter-Ri Vv,

T H E geneial Hitto y of the vali Continent and [ffands

of America, cominontly called the Wer-indies, trom

the firtt Ditco.uy the cof: With the bet Ac

: : Rap , ounts the

people could give of their Aniiguities, Col!

fro the

Criginal Relations tent to the King ot Sprain By Anto-

nio de Horiera Fiftoiographer to Lis Cs olck Aisiety,

branflated into knttlih by Capt. John Seocas. In Six

Volumes. Pluttrated with Cuts and M ps,

Astronomical Dislocucs between a C on lema: 1a La-

d 5 Wel im «hye Dottiine of the Spicy A at the

Glod.s, and the Elements or 4. frononiy ard raphy

are explained in a pleatant, easy, and tamla: 'Vay, with

a Description of the tamous Unitrument crue ery.

By John Hanis) D. D. and BR. S.) The 2d Edfgioa,

corrected by George scardon,

A New Journ. y through Greces, Ex: pe

p; D> ) .

Swifferlan', Aliatiz, and the N rlonds.

French Cihe r who teavdicd Cove Cour

17215 22, and 23.

Moreg2n.

15

Prleft ne,

Witten by a

ks in the Years

N . 2 ? } : 2,3 a

Now first dome mtv Fnglith by M:

~~ owe

For the Berefit of those woo are afiliéted with the

DROPSY.

1, who lives next Door to ¢

in Middle-street, Clogi-fury ncar Vu

ntinucs to potorm ei

temper, on both Seves, and all Ae

N. B. An Account may be had of feve

Plee2 aforetid.

e Baker and

it-'mithfield,

it Curcs in the fa.d

4

al Cures at the

’ ers oy

Dr. GODFREY’s General Cordis},

So universally approved of for the Cholick, and all manne

of Pains in the Bowe!s, Fixes, and Refilefsness in Ben, 4.

met, and Children,

S fold in mot Cities, Boroughs, and Ma: ket-Towrg

throuzhout Great-Britain ana Liclsnds remov’d from

Hunfdon to Broxborn ia Ferttordih re, and ior the Con-

venicney of supply'ng all those parts, I have efablihad

these following Whoiclaie Warchotls, viz.

fohn Weitlake’s in Q :cen-street, Kbriscols

Peter Leadbeater’s, Distiler, in Wett Chesters

Mr. Button’s, Bookseller, on the Bridge at Neweafile

: upon Tyne 5

Mr, Brooke's, Distiller, on the Biind-key, Dulin,

As 2ifo atm. Original Warehonit in Bishopsgate-street,

London.

All Merchants, Shoopkeepers, and others, miv be fup.

plied at any of the said Wa. houses, with good Silowance,

N. B. The Publick ave desired to t K2 Nouce, (to pre-

vent being imposed on) thet there isan ill minded Peston

who counterfe.ts the tatd licine, and puis the Name of

Godfrey on the top of rhe Bottles, and in his Bills giver

with the Bortles there is co Name who the Person is that

nrenaresies Dut as cis Counterfeic Maker is Now tound

ui hy fis own Conleton, he and his Sellers will be pro!>-

cuted as the Law dicéts (as Impeftors): Ant to prevent

the Buyers from being impos’d on, [ have pat my Chritti-

an Name on the Ton of cach Botele, which 1s prepared

By me Benjamin Godfrey, M.D.

The -price of cach Bottle is 6 d.

Lately published,

ot Uy J : ei J cs r . -..%. in / —

Finely priited inTwo Polumes oii, * rice Ze °

J ESTMONASTERIUM: Or, The Hiltery ond

Ant: nities of the Abbey Churel: of St, Peter’s WV cit

minister: Containing 2m Account of its ane’cnt and mo-

de-n Bullding, Fndowments, Chappels, Altars, Reliques,

Customs, Privileges, Forms of Governnent, &e. with the

Copi-s or ancicn: Saxon Charters, ccc, 2nd other Writings

relating toit. Together with a particular History of the

L:ves of the Abbots collcéted from ancient MSS. of that

Convent and Historians; and the Lives or the Deans to

tas Time; alfoa Survey of the Church and Cloy-

ftcis. by John Dart,

To which is added, Westminster-Abbey. A Poem,

Printed fo. Tho. Bow!l’s, Printfelicrin St. Paul’s Church.

Yard, and Jer. Batic’, Bookseller in Patcr-noftcr-row,

md

N. B This Work is adornod with 149 of the Monn.

ments in the said Church, curiously cngra:cn by the best

Hands on Folio Copper Platcs: Together with + Plan

and several Prospeéts ot the Chure'.

ment by Michael Angelo. A final! Numb

an Imperial Paper. Prices lL. 5s.

' ? y

Alo the Laft Jucg-

o

are ' }

rare printed on

This Day is published, in a neat pocket Volume, Price2¢.

6d. the tecond Edition wich Additions of

H E {nvelligencer. By the celebrated Author of the

Tale of 2 Tub.

Omiie vifer vitium ridenti Flaccus amico

Tangit, & Adniffus cuvcum trecordia ludit, Pert,

Conzainis g, Theinhoip table Temper of Squire Wethicr.-

A Vindication of Mr. Gay, and the Beggar’s Opera. -----

The Folly of Gaming. A Description of what the

World ealis Dicretion.——— A KReprefeniation of the

present Condition of Ireland. ——-—-~- The s ot

Coruiodes and Eugenio. --—-—A Dialers botween Mul-

iniz and ———— Thiefoolifh M thods of Edr-

Tirmogit

A SS EF TE

CD 2 Re ee ee

ee

Ee ek oe.

ion amerng the Nobility. -——— Tim, ant Gav s Fabics.

ee Propigis in Protec and Verse for an universal View

of the «nm inent Writers of the holy Sciiptures ———-—5

Ralph the Perriot turn’d Courtiew— the Art of Stay-

telling.-——— Prancthu’s Artof Man-matinz, and the

Tale of a T—-4, ———— Tne Services the Draper has

donc his Country, and rhe Steps taken to ruin i.-——-——

The Adventures of the three Brothers, George, Patrick

and Andrew, ——— The Marks ot Ileland’s Poverty,

shown to be evident Proofs of iis Riches, ——-—St. An

drow’s Davy and the Draper’s Listh-day.——Thie Han

shinsof the frith being deprived of their Silver, and do-

coy d into A nerea —-—<=- Dean Smedicy gone to f

his Fercune—The Pheafent and the Lark: A Fabk.

Printed ior, and told by Francis Cogan, at the Middie-

templc-szate in Fleet-street,

BOOKS 1 ed and fold by Join Brotierton at tus

Pavern in Cornhiil.

King’s H. Gods

Blair's Sermons, § Vol: Svo.

Hous HeExt tie three Lun

DJifon’s Works, 4 Vol.

A In giv.

emachus, 2 Vol,

v's Fables. Gordon's Gcog. Grammar,

Mandexviils Free Thonghts | Plutarch’s Livcs,5 Vol 8va.

— Dito ableof the Bucs, | Milton’s Parade lott.

> Vol. ——— Ditto rezain’d,

—— DPirtoVircin fnmasik’d. | Clarendon’s History, 6 Vol.

—— Dito Hypochondriack | Guardians, 2 Vol.

Bover’s T Cos! tion, 2 Ve!

Pilgrim’s Progrets. Koncau Oeuwr Wy

Mafieal Dictionary. Colteftion of Novels.

Buckinghzm’s Works, 2 Vol. } Shaketperr’s Plays.

Royor’s Dictionary abriced. | Cvid’s Epifl

Pope's Homes’s Hiiad, 6 Vol | ——Dir:

—— Dito Olviv's, 5 Vol. | f

ae e+ a - = opened

LONDON: Printed by Mr Moore, for Captain Gulliver, near the Temple, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in.

[Price Two Pence.]

