Numb. 27.

The Grub-street Journal.

Thursday, JULY 9. 1730.

To some enchanted Castle is convey’d,

Where gates impregnable and coercive charms

In durance vile detain him:

Philips’s Splendid Shilling.

To Mr. Bavius, Secretary to the Grubean Society,

Worthy Sir.

I WAS not a little surprized with a pare-

graph I lately met with in one of the Dail

Papers, that Mr. Woorston, the greate

advocate for the truth of the Christian Re-

ligion, as ie him({eif assures us in his last

Defence, should meet withno kinder treat-

ment from the Government, than aclofer eonfinement in

the King’s-Bench, for his many excellent Discour/es on

the miracles: amisfortune owing, no doubt, to the pre-

judice, or incapacity of the Legislature; notable to dif-

cover the pious intentions of that mystical Writer, or the

service he had really done to the Christian {cheme, by his

learned explications of it. I was mentioning the hard-

ship of his Cafe to some persons at the Temple Coffee-

house, who were pleased to entertain the company with

loud laugh g hearing me talk, in their opinion, with fo

much weakness and simplicity; grave'y affuring me, that

Mr. Wootston was no more a prisoner in the King’s-

Bench, than I was in Newgate. A little startled at this

merry way of confutation, I began to distrust my me-

mory, and was fearful I had only dream’d of Mr. Woot-

&Ton’s misfortune, and not read it in the Papers. To

satisfy my self, and convince the company, if possible,

of the reality of the report, I fent for the Fouwrzal, which

avouch’d the fact, just as I had related it. But this, in-

stead of satisfying the Gentlemen, produc’d only a lou-

der and stronger laugh against me. Unable to penetrate

fnto the mystery of this merriment, one 6f the com-

pany {miling, and with an air of derifion, ask’d me, if

I was not a Christian? To which question I modestly

reply'd, Yes. Hetold me then, with some seeming com-

paflion fer my misfortune, that into such blunders and

such absurdities people must unavoidable fall; who would

interpret Scriptures or News-papers in a literal fonfe ;

the unhappy cause of fo many mischievous errors, in

Religion, as well as Policy! 1 own, fays he, the Papers

seem to mention a Warrant from aSecretary that has de-

prived my worthy Friend of his freedom, and ciofely

confined him in a goal: but fure you are not fo untor-

tunate, or founthinking a slave to the letter, to imagine

this account a ftri€ reality, or Mr. Woo.sTon a bzing

really imprisoned. Journals, Sir, should be read like Re-

Velations, not a line ot ’em to be understood in that fenfs

they seem at first fight to import. Assure your fet, eve-

ty fyllable in the commicment has a hidden and my-

stical meaning, which none but the modern depts in Divi-

nity fully comp ehend; being all type, shadow, darkne/s

and allegory, from oneead to the other. And as I have

some hopes of your quitting the absurditics of the pre-

fent Belief, I thall open to you the reasons of your mi-

stake. Secretary, Sergeant, Warrant, Cominitmens, Impri-

foxnmunt, Tur: ky. signity no more che things they seem to

denote, than they do {> many fcullers on the Thames,

or fo many contteilations in the firmament: yet under-

stood in the figurative and aliegorical ienf:, have already,

and may have again, their final accomplishment. The

Paragraph tiat has deluded you, and perhaps many more

inconsiderate persons, has this natural, tho’ mystical, mean-

ing couch’d under the letter of it : by a Secretary is plain-

ly intimated, a Weollen-draper; by a Sergeant, a Londo»

Taylor; by a Warrant, his Measure. By Commitment

and Imprisonment, a clof: detension in @ new [wit; and by

4 Turn-key, a Sleeve too tightly outton’d. So that all the

noifeand uproar about Mr. WoorsTon’s confinement at the

bottom is no more than this, That last week Mr. Woot-

éTON put on a new suit of cloaths; which, by the un-

ekilfuiness of his Taylor, was made fo very ftrait and

close, that it deprived him of his liberty; that is, he

Could not walk, write, or move with that freedom, ease,

and facility he used to do, in his o!d coat. I have seen

the very suit, fays he, which has led the Town: iato fo

tmany absurd conjectures abont Mr. Wooxston’s litezal

imprisonment; which being a figurative expression on-

ly, and fo naturally explained, wil, 1 hope, induce his

enemies hereafter to be more tender of a Gentleman’s

putation; and not throw him into a goal, every time

t Fe ey *y a

s . hn

a -*

he is fo very unfortunate, as to have anew coat, wastecoat,

and breeches.

I heard the Orator all this while. with a very strict

attention, rather surprized, than convinced, by the odd-

ness of his assertions; which being delivered with an

Outward shew of gravity and feriouiness, did not alittle

perplex me; leaving me in doubt, if I was to believe

his explication as a truth, or reject it asa banter.

After making some reflections upon it, | began to think

that there could be no yery great danger of running io

debt, {peaking treason, or biafphemy it self, if any of

his Majesty’s subjects, by much study acquir’d an art of

explaining a criminal, convicted by a regular process of

law, into afhadow, or a phantom; and allegoriaing Pri-

foners, in {pite of locks, irons, and stone walls, out of

Newgate, or the King’s-Bench, — ,

With these thoughts I left the Coffee-house in a state

of uncertainty, resolved to be an eye-witoels of Mr.

Wootston’s literal freedom or confinemert, before I re-

ti-ned; and whether imprisonment in the publick Pa-

pers, denoted his confinement in brick walla, or a broad

cloath suit, infifted on by his facetious friends near the

Temple.

Being now arrived at the King’s-Bench Prison, I found

it no enchanted Castle, but a strong, literal fabrick, the

doors real timber, the bolts folid iron, the walls unfigura-

tive stone, and nothing allegorical in it from topto bottom. |

I ask’d the keeper, to whom I had the favour of being ad-

mitted, ifever he had any typical, figurative ¢riminals com-

mitted to hiscustody, for debt, or other misdemeanor; or if

he had any apartments in the King’s Bench, close enough

to detain Shadows, or State Phantoms. The Keeper, flartied

at my simplicity, told me with some resentment, that he

had no such airy Prison; his Commission extending to

the confinement of such Beings only, thac were rea} fleth

andblood. As for Shadows and Phaztoms, he never had any

Gentleman of those names under hiscare. I then very mo

deftly demanded, if amonyft the real Exi/ting Beings, he

had the tuition of the learneé Mr. Tuomas Woo.ston.

You fee the very person, walking at the very upper en

of the court just befcre you. Ley’d him with the strong-

eft attention I was able at that distance; his figure starr-

led me; he seem’d to be made up of whim, madness, and

contemplations hisafpect fullen, morofe, aid daring; ha-

ving a mixture in his looks of ferioufnels and simplicity,

walking now with all the gravity of a philosopher, and

putting on the next moment the airs of an anvick anda buf-

toon; reasoning, {wearing, arguing, droliing, all in the

fame breath. i could just hear him mutier'ng co him-

{elf the names of Cottins, TinpaL, and Jesus Cuaist;

which last he never mentioned, but with a {esming con-

rempt, orabhorrence. In short, tome he {cem’d to weai

the shape, and have all the actions of areal creature, with

some thing very dark and banging in his countenance; which

made me very cautious, for fear of an intediion, of ap-

proaching nearertohim. I miis’d nothing of the man, buc

his new suit, in which his friends at the Coffee-house had

lately describ’d him, And aaviag some suspicion, that this

might be adifferent person of the {ame name, { desired the

exper to inform me, for what crimes that Gentleman fuf-

ferrd imprisonment # Crimess said he, with some paffioa!

in my opicion, for pene at als The Bishops and Clergy

are the poor fnan’s inveterate enemies, for printing a

little pretanenefe and blaifphemy, and endeavouring to

maintain himself in an honest way. What he has writ-

ten hurts neither Bishops, Lords, nor Commons, ner any

subject in Great Britain; and ‘tis very hard, a person is

not to enjoy his opinion, tor fear of prosecutions: that

he is obliged to be of the true Religion, when, tor many

years last past, more money has been got by professing a

talfe one. Mr. Weotston, no doubt, had weigh’d the

inconveniences on both fides; and con{cientiously deter-

mined, there was more wisdom in being a rich infidel,

than a poor believer: and nothing can excuse the feve-

rity and injustice of those laws, which imprison a Wri-

ter for those gainful opinions, that provide him with

meat, drink, and cloathing, and preserve him at once

from hunger and nakedness, the very cafe of that suffer-

ing, unfortunate Author.

By this description and warm apology I fear’d I had

been imposed upon at the Coffee-house, by the story of

the Taylor, being now sensibly convinc’d, that it was no

typical, mystical, allegorical Woobstow, that was confin’d

in the King’s Bench; but the very fame numeri

tical Wootston, who had in fix Difonrfes rieebel the

Cariftian Religion, and blafphem’d Jesus Christ. And I

am of opinion, that these figures, emblems, and thadows

will be of very little service to him under his present

confinement 5 since, “tis very probable, that Whilethealle-

od Mr. het pret a, ‘imprison’d, the literal Mr.

COLSTON Wi i ir;

hie ange wh y be at liberty, I dm, dear Sir;

Your most fineere humble servant, N.T.

To Mr. Bavtus Secretary to the Society of Grub-streeti

Learned Sir,

T HE rcetar | Imitation of the XIX Idyllium of

Tueocritus having never yet been published, [

presume it will be acceptable to many of your readers.

E Theoctito cum levi quadam fensfis immutatione, fed

potills novze allutionis additameato, traduétum.

Meligos hauttus fitiens Cupido;

Cereas cellas {poliat dolofus ;

It, redit : fed post itcrata furta

: Liefus abibat,

Tunc manus fufflans, pedibufgue pulfans,

Esilit, matri properans relatum,

Mi dedit plégam fera quam puiilia, ,

Qaantula quantani!

Illa fubridens, Similis fereque

Nonne tu fili ? Quoties puella,

Dylce post furtum, tumefacta clamat,

Tancula tantum

In English ‘

Cupid once having tobb’d an hive,

He .ik’d the trade, and hop’d to thrive:

At length the filching Koave was stung 3

Mad with the pain, he stamp'd, he flung;

His clammy fiogeré oft he blew,

And to his Mother streight he flew.

Mamma, he cries, this cur fed Bee,

How it has wounded ime, you fee;

How big the {welling! yet che sting

Was buta little tiny thing.

Quoth Venus, Precioss Son of mine,

Jutt {uch a tiny thing is thine;

Ard yet how couch ‘twill make’em swell,

After fto’'a-{weets, the Girls can tell.

Cambridge, Fune 24, 1730. Baviusi.

LONDON. ;

C. Coarant. &.P. Thad ruming Poff, ,

P. Post-Bey, &. 7 EB. St. fames's Ev. Post,

D.P. Daily Post. VW. E. Whitehall &ven. Post,

D.F. Daily Journal. L E. London Evening Poji.

Important Articles omitted in our last.

Coe Gunael, a Butcher, fell from his horse at Pims

licee, and fra@tured his skull S.7.E. W. E25. .

Wedo. lait, Mr. Wailer of Lewes in Sussex, was taken

ill ac dianer with Mr, Lobden, &c. and died in 3 hours,

C. 26. &e. The Person’s name was Walter.———

A Child 3 or 4 years old, miffing from the Parents;

found dead in Tower-ditch. P. A matter of a

Mackrel boat fell overboard, and was {queezed almost ta

death at Billingsgate. P. 27. A boy fell off a Cart,

the wheel ef which went over him, and he died in-

stantly. Ibid. A boy of 14 drowned in the

Thames. Jéid. One Vincent, Apprentice to a Til-

let-Painter, drowned in a pond in White-conduct-fe!ds;

SFE. W.B..——Mr. Joshua Gee's Wife died at Hamp

stead. WE. One Coventry committed to Neve

gate for stealing 2 silk handkerchiefs. P.29. ——— A

Dyer’s Prentice flipt into a balla(t hole, and was drowna

ed. C.30 An elderly Woman found drowned in

the New River. D. 7. A Journey-man shoe-maker

dropt down dead in Gray’s-ing lane. P, July st. '

Tuursvar, Fuly a.

Yesterday morn. 4 Street-robbers, robbed 4 pee

in his coach near Turnfti!le, Holtorn, of his watch an

rings to a considerable value. P.

Laft fat. died at Mowat Lee, at Egham in Surrey, Fran-

- | nna! AOI om Rie septa ate — DE ggg Oo mating

€s Foot, Efys of Cornwall: and yesterday Tho. Jott, EG; . |

Auditor of the Exchequer. D. P.

Sir Rob. Henley, Bar. fir% Lieutenant of 2 man of

war, resigned his Commission afew daysfince. D.7.g

Peter Bluck, Gent. was erraigned at-#/re Old Baily, and

‘pleaded Guilty; and being advised to plead Not Guitty,

replied, that he was Guilty in his own confci-

ance. Ibid.

This morn. a terrible hurricane happened, which un-

tiled many houses, and tore up several trees in S. Jomes’s

Park. §S. 7. &.

Farivar, Fuly 3.

Peter Bluck hath pleaded Not Guilty, and wae yester-

Way tried and acquitted. C. An Apothecary cepoied,

that he believed, that Mr. Bluck’s daughter died of con-

vulfion fits: 2 searchers deposed the fame, 2 Genticmen

*‘ferore, that Mr. Bluck was lunatic, before the death of

the Child. Upon which the Jury brought him in Non

compos mantis. Sixce his continement, he gavea Rela.

tion 50). to fave his body from being anatomiazcd. P. ---

This dread of the Larbarity of Surgeons after death, is vs-

commen to the Lunatic: in Newgate.

Wedn. some Work: men, pulling down some old houses

in Bloomsbury, found a man, supposed to have hanged

bimieif; who since appears to be a Cobler in the neigh-

bourheod, bid.

Lait week the Dutchess of S. Alban’s was safely de-

livered of a fan and heir. Ibid.

Mond. died of a fever Beau Holloway: He was the

Person that fold the famous horse Leeds to P. George of

Denmark tor 100 |. D. P. A short, bus glorions

charaéker, witch may make a Basu as famous 43 a horse.

Wul. Lownds, Eiq; succeeds Tho. Jett, Esq; ae one of

the Audirors ot the Exchequer. Ibid.

Yesterday was play’d a Cricket-match between the

Kentish men and Londoners, for 50], aad won by the

former. Jord.

The fame day died the Lady Hare ia old Rond-street. Ie.

A Writ of errer not being grante} io favour of Cx

Charteris, we hear, that he and Mr. ‘tortis, High Paint

of Westminster, have made anagreemeent. od.

SaTuRDAY, fu 4.

We hear that her G. the Dutchess Doweger of Mar!

ff rroueh has agreed with Mr. Rysbrack the Sen'pror, tc

erc€ting @ monumer:t for the late Duke io tne Chappel

at Bienheim, designed by Mr.Kent. P. Dv. D F.

The beginning of this week, died at his ieat in York-

shire Sir Wall. Peanington, Ber. Comptrolier in the office

of Excift,&c. P.

A few days ago Mary Savage, a Lunatic, hanged her

self with the hem of ber shift ia New Bedlam. Ibid.

Laft tuefa.. Mr. Wood’s coach, ia which wese 5 pailzn-

gers going from Gravesend to Chatham, svasoverict near

Strode by which a Genclewosnan had her skull thatter’d

to such a degree, that the died imomediately. Idd.

Oae White an Attorney was tried for a misdemeanor

in extorting a guinea and halt trom a Person who keeps

a pudlic house, which he effected thus: The man had

fen: out some pots, that held less than a gallon, contra-

rytc a late AGt of Parl. White fenta person, who fery’d

him with a copy of a Writ, for the recovery of go 8. and

then corn pouuded_ the fame tor a guinea end a half: which

beic2 plaucy prowed, the Jury townd him guilty, Lda.

Upon a fetute of Q, Eliz. he is to fland in the pillory,

to pay a tine of 10]. and to be render’d iiacapadle of ever

being an tniormer, D. F. The latter part of thie

fratnce fecms very unreasonable, frice the + actions {iw shes

perfom 10 be very Capsule of being an Informer. |

Mrs. Kugiton wascry’d tur counterteiting of tlamps;

boi in tiog that what the tremfacted withiclation theres

to, was by the order and dirc@iun of her husband, whu

has made bs cicaos, the Jury acquitred her. 1oid, ——

A rem. rhabl: iv fance of an obedient Wife.

Thai ad ‘he Lotrery-office in Ub hitehall, ata gene-

gai mevenag of the Proprietors of Pulbam-bredye, it was

refe've’ Phat ther thanks be given to Wal. Chefeden,

Esq . geot, &c. for the great benefic ond advantage re-

eciv fronahss generous advice and aflitianers the bridye

having beom bul entirely according to a telime formed

by bm. Thar Mr. Paillips the Builder has executed the

Gefign, with fuci great expedition, and in fach fubisn-

tia’ and work-man-like manner, that he hishly deserves

@gracuity. And that1~o guineas be given to Mr. Eden,,

their fecreiary, as a gratuity fer bis diligent and faithful

services. PD. P,

His Excalescy, Myuheer Hop, Favoy of their High

Mightiaefles, &c. hath exdidited a complaint against che

accounts published in fevers! Raylith News-papers, rela-

ting to persons said to be guilty of fo’omitical praGices

in Holand, &e. and praying, thac the Authors of them

may be punished. Ibid.

We hear, that the Spanish Court hath pressed the em-

kation of the English Troops; and that the Regiments

of Kerr, Kirk, and Tyraw!ey, which are to embark on

the intended expedition, are to be reviewed in the Ife

of Wight Friday next. £.P. S.7. E.

Count Degenveldt, Envoy extraordinary from the K.

of Proffia, arrived last thuriday. gE. ’. An Envoy

is daily expected from bis Pruthan Majesty; one of his

Majesty’s Yatchs being now at Hollaad waiting his ar-

rivalthere, B.P.

A few days since died (aged 99 years except one day)

Capt. John Haslewood, one of the Kider Brothers of

Trinity Hoefe of Deptford Stroud. 4 £.P.

This day at noen ended the Sessions at the Old Baily s

and norwithRanding near foo Prisoners were try’d, nove

have been capitally convidied: which is che firit maiden

Sessions which has happened there this 16 or i 7 years.

S F.E.

We are credibly informed, that a Paragraph in the S.

Jaines’s Ever. Post, fuse 13. and one in the D. Journa,

Jane 17. both relating to the prosecution ana pun shing

some persons for Sodomy at Acaiterdam, Rorre: cam, and

the Hague, is [are] intirciy raise and greuniiets, We. Ans

we arcaffured, that the Miaiiter of che H. Mighrine‘es

has made compiaints to the Government, in crder io have

the Authuis discovered and punified We thought ro-

per to pubith this to diieourage News wiiters, fot

publubing fafe accounts, ke WW. é. 4 Mary,

no doubt, empell soon an account ener tha. 70 “Oni xe-

vutions, asiainy mation, bave cees im Vand. or shat

they ware the punishmerts of osber crimes.

Monpnay, Fulyc.

His Majesty has been pieat- 1 to grant to the Rev.

Mr. Jorn Villc, the Retury of the new Charch and

Par:shot St. Joan che Evang. at Afii back, Weitmin-

fer. P. &c.

Yeflercay morn. a fire happensd in Whire chappel,

which bu nt vown 2 houses, a pafiry cook’s ard 4 voil-

ing ceck’s. D. P. 3 howles. P. as allo 2 of 3 back-

ward. D. Ff.

at the Seffionsat the Old Baily, 3 were burnt in the

hand, ¢ ordered co be whippd, and about 30 for trani-

portation.

a maiden assize in London for about 14 years. D. P.

Sar. last about 3 in the morning, at S, Thomas's ho-

{pital in Southwark, 3 men being emp.oyed to empty a

veut; when they had simolt finithed their work, one

ot them cropped dowa dead suddenly from the ladder ;

a second going to help him, had the fime fate; anda

third tying a rope round his wailt, as he was le:ring

down, calied immediste'y for he!p, aod being drawa up

again, lay some time for dead. D. 7,

Fiid, night last Capt. Pitt was attacked in King street

by Gouden square, by 2 Faor-pads, cone of which pre-

fented a pistol to his breait, whilst che other robbed him

of a go'deheaded cans, a silver-hilted {word, and 2 gui-

nease Ibid.

Tuespvay, Fuly >.

Sund. night at 10 Mr. Bishop, # noted Butcher, was

fet upon between Kinpiland and Iilingion by 3 Foot-

pids, who rufh’d out upon him from dehind a great

ilm-tree. One that aad a blunderduis bia mim flop. or

he would thoort him 5 woh be not doing, he difch ry-

ed the blunderbufs, which was probabiy loaded wih te

or 12 balls, for 5 wee ‘akea out of hitmare; which,

tho’ fo much wounsel, carried hind near haif a mile

father, bur dopt down dead at Hlagcon D.P.

Sat. at Elick’s-had, a butcher, for ravishing the 2

cudern formerly menticued, owes tentenced to be 4

months imprisoned, and wh pt every day. P.

Thurs'ay last died at his isve at Wii ford near Saiis-

bury, Sir Rich. How, Bar. who inas lett the bulk of bis

eftace to Joha How, Eq; C.

About 2 months since 4 howe at Newiagton-Green,

belonging to Mr. Watson, was robced of a canfider-

able quactity of lead; soon afer which his hoafe was

waded again: anda few nights ago ic was ftii; ped a ic-

cond time, and by aceident the lead was found in edited

neat the house. 2 or three persons armed, were ordered

lait sunday night to watch tc; when 2 men came to che

place, and prepared to get up the lead; who bein: called

to, and bid to surrender, endeavoured to run away:

but the watch firing, flict one of them into thenece and

back part of the head, £0 that he died on the ipot. D ‘7.

This morning died at Kensington-fqu.re, Lieut. Geo.

Maccartney, Governor of Portsmouth, &c. On Nov.

15, 1712, he was engiged in the memorable duel bes

tween the late D. ilamilton and L. Mohun in Hide-

Park. S.F. E.

At the late insta'lment, the new Knights ordered

bandiome fum to bedistributed to the Batahion of Foor-

guards then on duty, to which her Majesty was pleated

to add 50 guineas; which was yesterday distributed, and

P. There has not been above » instinces of

' be a yet ¢

— ae ee ee

amourited to one weeks pay to each man, viz. to every

Sergeant 9s. 4d. to the Corpora!s 6s. 2d. to the Drums

gs. to cach private Centisel qs, Lbid. WE.

The Rev. Dr, Young was a few days since prefinted

to a living of 3001. per ann, in Herttordhhire. loid ZL. ep

The University of Cambricge have conterred the a.

pree of Dr, of Physick on the Marguefs of Blandford

who was present at their Commencement laf fund, 1, E.

Werpnespay, Faly 8.

Yesterday Sir Cha Mordeunt, Par. was marzied to 4

Daughter of Sir Joha Weodaeoule, bar.a Lady of 10,ca0]

fortune. D. F.

Laft night the L. Prudenell, was married to the Lad

Mary Montague, youngest Daughter to his Grace the D,

or Mentague. D. J. The hen. — Brudnel, Ef; P

The Whireha!! ivening married thm last Tins {day

Yefiercay Sir Wiliam Oyborn, Knt. was e@ted one of

the eider Brothers in the ‘irinity-tloule 5 after which he

gave a very elegant entertainment at Pontacks to Sir Cha,

Wager, an the rest of the Gentiemen of that Brotherhood,

k DP. D. Fz.

far. Siitdicton the Coal-merchint of Chiswick,

was uilortuoaicly drow:ed iafi Monday as he was passing

cluyh Loin'e o briege in one of his own lighters, was

Gav a ‘oy. quantity of Coals for the E.of Pup.

tie Tod, He had above 2col, in Specie in his pockets

von this raisfortune happened; and his body Lath noe

Vad. Veerdsy Morn. one Mackdo ld a

‘> ies % e 7 i 4 nous vr

Goawortr, thit wor feacineg tor the budy below Biidoe,

was fr owned, DD; FP. ™

Paisbure, 5 ane2§. We have confirmed what was

Mentioned in our last, concerning the Celeetors Clerk

who

. 7 ~

Pi '

, ia hd vu

, e cad ° ° ry? °

at Vos Ga‘gow, woh this varia ion, That his name was

Vi aitenal, Hot Winteman; aad that he became, ter some

time ucfare bis cov, morole and chagrin, whereas he

Wes natuialy facetious and cheary; and 2 or 3 cays be.

fore this faial perio’, he toid a Perton in the neighl Oure

hood, wh» had paid hiin up the current quarter, that he

was {> much indebted to the {aid Person. What then?

reply’d the other, we shall reckon alterwards. But, ie

{wered the Clek, Tam to die such a day, hour, and mi-

mute: and it fo happened precidely. However unsc-

vourtable this narrative may seem, yet we are assured

the particulers above and before marrated, are materially

truc. C. &e. July 2. ‘

Laft tucid. bis Majesty’s Plate of 100 guiness value,

bsing a gold ‘Tca-pet, was run for on the iands of Leith

aud won by a black Stone Horie, called the Scarborough

Cuit, belonging to Sr Marmaluxe Wyvil of York thire

age ree er for it. The Bye-race was woe

»y the celebrated Galloway belonging to Mr. Ma

Messenger. 16.4. . ee

Fane 29. We bear that taft thurfday 3 wounded whi'es

run ashore near Kilranny im Fife, where they lay upoa

the property of \ r. Peston of Balfour, Laft. frid.

died tne R.. Lord Forbes. P. Yerfierday morn. his

corpie was interred in the Royal Chuppel of Ho'y Roo’

| bome. C. 7. rhe Abbey-Church of Holy Rood-house,

ide bas left iilue Francis, now L. Forbes, and z Daughe

ters. P27. He was th: mot ancient Peer of that dig-

nity in Scotland, his family having enjoy’d the title abcut

3/0 years, C.

Lwbiiv, Fun 23. Lat week there was upwards of

17,000 1. recei¥ud in our Linnen-Hall for Linnea, c. &e.

July 2.

fuier7. Tueld, died she RH. Tho. Dalton, Esq; L.

C. Baroa ct his Mijefy’s Cout of Exchequer. P. D P. 4.

Fuie 3>. Lak week a Procamation was issued by the

L. Mayor azainf vasrant begpsr., who are come in

crowes to this ciry uader pretence of hay-m:king, end

commanding them to return toche country from whence

they came. C. P. 7.

RP ahidiplia, Fan.27. At Coneltogoe Chitftop. Fran-

Chics, betsz goute to bed, heard a great Gifturbance a-

Mong his inseos on wiich he fiat out his dog; and

hadeamp bowek to the th.ep peo, found a large woif

leapng ooura ferce. Tae wolt being delay’d by fine

POR ove cootinto 2 cranny of the fence; the maa graspe

¢) mar by rhe neck with one hand, and by a hind leg

wih che otier, ard t> pudcd him dewn: then fhifiag

his had trom the +g to the ear, and foreing his knee

upon the bevits body, he there held bim, without being

bitten, tho’ the Coe worrted his hinder parts, and more

enriged iym. Pe man caled out for help, and his

Daughter came with a kuiiey and ler out the Welt’s en-

Urals. P, 2.

Feb. ig. Mond. ‘a % arrived the (loop O.ive Branch, N.

Neg2!!, At.f. She lete Jamaica in the Fal’, buuna hither,

Hut was ten by a Spanish Gu.rd la Cotta, carried into

Catupechy, and derained 2 months: and tho’ the Spas

maids found nothing on board to make her a lawted

‘oe it colt the Merehan's 705 pieces of $ in presents,

before they could get away. Ibid. ;

o henapell in Maryland, Ap, 28. Latt friday died the

H. Edw. ben Calvert, Eig; President of the Council,

Sec. and -@ Brother to the L. Proprietor of this Pro-

vince, in his a5th year. I id. “

From tne Pogajus in Gruboffreet,

In our Journs!, Numb. 2i. We printed a thort copy

of veries writen by a LHEOBALDIAN, Containing an ade

mirabie fimile about Pope joan, appl.ed to Mr, Por: we

shall now lay before the reader the very fame fimile, turned

by Mr. Dacryb against the LgopaLpians, who keeps

epfe to the ietter of the flory, which is now generaily

exploded. ;

‘As when that celebrated Harlot Joan

’Gainft nature's laws ufurp'd the Papa! throne;

Paffing in solemn pomp the ftrects of Rome,

She fel! in labour near S. CLeEMENT’s Dome ;

In miserable notes her Bastard cry’d,

And, with its mother, {son as born, it dy'd.

Thus feribling Wights, for verse, or profe unfit

By nature form’d, uiurp the chair of wits

Pregnant in garret made, with woful strains

In tlreets bring forth the off- {pring of their brains:

Near Ce MenT’s Church, whereBrown,& Viears,&Cuar

Wich Micewife hand unbar the gates of day;

On stalls expos’d the Brats negiccied lye

Unfold; mean while the famish’d Parents dys.

But SPONDEE Cries, Your Simile is lame;

The difference teo great in parts, and fame ;

More wit and learning grac’d that mitred Whore,

Than C—ke, C n, W d, Rh, and M—=

© Whereas THe Werxty Mente has absented him-

* self from the meetings at the Pegaius for near 2 months,

s which has made his Friends there very follicitous icf

‘he is come to some misfortune; this is to desire any

‘ Person, who knows what is becoime of him, to favour

© the Society with an account. Heis a middile-fiz'd man,

¢ some what pock-fretten, of a fresh comp.cxion, aud a

* dapper mien; has loft z of his fore-teeth; haltsa little on

« one leg, and uses one hand awkwardly, occasioned by

‘ alate stroke of the pally, which almost cook away the

« ufe of his ieft fide : he {peaks broken English interlarded

‘ with French and Latin; and frequently tags the ends

* of his sentences with rhime.

4

FOREIGN NEW G.

Tuursvay, Fuly 2.

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from France,

Rom, Fune 14. N. S. We have received ad»

vice from Norcia, that the rest of the houses and walls

of that Town were thrown down the 28th past, by a

third shock cf an Earthquake; and that several small,

clear {prings role in different parts of the Town. C.

Fune 17. The D. of Gravina, before he came to this

city went to Albano, to make a visit to the Chevalier

de S. George; and made a present to each of the Prin-

ces his fons, of a goid inuff box of great value. D. P.

Madrid, Fune 20. On the 13th their Catholic Ma-

jesties, &c. arrived at Cazalla, where they delign to take

the diversion of hunting for some days. There is an epi-

demical ma!:gnant fever in almost all the Provinces of

this kingdom, which is most rite among the couotry

people, but not dangerous. “Tis reported; that Muly

Abdaliah K. of Fez and Merocco, has been assassinated

by the Biacks; and that those People not being deter-

mined ig the choice ef his Sacceflor, those kingdoms

were in the utmost disorder and confuliom. C.

Paris, Fly 8. On the 6th the K. having first heard

mais, fet out about 6 in the morning for Compiegne —

By a letter from the Fort de Conde de la Mobile in T.oui-

fina, Mar. 4. we hive enaccount, that since the maf-

facte of the French by the wild Natches, Dec, 28. at

New Orleans, 200 French, and 300 of the most resolute

Savages were fent against them under the command of

the Chevalier de Louvoy; who came up with them, Feb

14. Ico leagues beyond the place, and killed 160 on the

{pot. The rest escaped into a Fort, and surrendered on

capitulation, all the women, children, and negroes they

had in slavery, with 2 chalices, a pyx, &c. Those Bar-

barians still make 4¢0 men: but the French hope to

destroy them utterly, as soon as they receive the fuc-

Cours expected from France. C. J’.

Warsaw, June 11. We hear from Swerin, that the

Court of D. Ch. Leopo'd of Mecklembourg was grown

very numerous; and that it was believed the Impe-

tial Commission would hardly be able to stand their

ground. D.P.

Cadiz, Funead. There are now in our Bay 34 Bri-

tith merchant ships, 13 French, 10 Dutch, 1 Swede, and

1 Genoefe, a!l embargocd for his Majesty’s service; not-

<7 Sgekt : 5 :; PSs eee te .

withstanding feveril of theta had their lading’ on boatd,

and Were realy to fail, teid.

This cay arrived two Mails from Piindete.

Brussels, Fume 3. °Tis Taid, that the Troops in the

Nethes.ands .re.v beauzmented to 10,000 men; andtobe

made ufeot iucafe of need, in bis Imperizi Majesty’s fere

vice. Theatlarsef the Olt, East-Inaiag Conspany arethuch

in the fame poiture as of late: but “tis daid, they intend

to revive their commence with vigour next ipring. 3 7.B.

Friday, Fay 3-

Mefeow, Funeg. ACham, dispatched irom I{pahan by

the prefect P. Thamas, whe is arrived et Werbenr, has

assured, that leave is given toall che merchants of Ruf-

fia ev trade freely to Iipahan, andto all the parts of the

Persian monarchy. D. FP, D.F.

Bircelona, June tt. We have received positive order

from the Court to hasten the necessary eitpolitions for

the expedition ef Italy. We work day and night, to

perfect a bridge of new invention, ior the more ealy

putting the heavy artillery on board: and we compute,

that ia less than 6 weeks all things will be pot ready for

the imbarkation of 42,c00 wfieQive men. ibid.

Leghorn, Fuxe 17. Cur iaft advices from Corsica im.

por:, that the Malecontents grow every day more and

more insolent. They precend now, that al. che impo.

fitions they have been obige: to pay for some time patt,

shall be reihored to them, So that it is beuewed, chat

the Gencefe will betoiced to make use of foreign Tioops

to reduce them to obedience. 5/4.

SaturpayY, Fuly 4.

Rome, Funety. The Peivcefs Sobieski was upon the

point of going to Albano, on iantay in the aite-noon,

to visit the Chevalier de St, Georges but he came to

Towa unexpectedly, and prevented het, and ftaig a iewwa

till mondsy evening. C.

Milan, Fuse 17, “Tie reported here, that the 3d co-

lumn of Imperial Troops is actualy marching towards

Mantua. J61d. |

Copenhagen, Fure 7. Onthe 25th was celedrared

with much ¢evotion, in al the Churches ct ths city,

the Jubiice of 2@0 ycarz of the C.atedbonot Aug ou g

by John Eicétor of Saxony, George Margiave of bean

cenbourg, Einest and tian iDukes t Lucendoesy, Phi-

lip Landprave of th ffe-( ailei, Wotang “since 0 Anhal:,

and the =: Imperial Towns of Neurcaterg aud Kent-

lingen. D.P.

Marli, Fuly ». Yesterday was heid here ageneral Coun-

cil upow che present conjuncture of affairs, at which

were present the + intfters of the Allies. The Mare

fal “iuers declared, that France was ready to enter

direct, upon the fetthng Don Carlos in Italy, if Eng-

land and Holland though: fie to furnifi their quota of

T cops. To which Mr. Walpole answered, That it was

inspotisb'e for the King his Master vo furnish those Troops

this feafoa, since it bad not been fo much as mentioned

to the Paruament. The Dutch Miinilter declared, That

the Srates were sot able to comply with the terms of

the Treaty, unless they might reckon the garrisons of the

Towns in Fianders into the number uf the Troops they

were to provide. The Contsrence continued some hours,

but nothing was concluded: and we can expect to hear

nothing more of the Peace of Seville, till the post re-

turns, atter the General Sp:nola arrives at the Court of

Spain. WS.

Monpay, Faly 6.

Yesterday arrived the Mails from France and Holland.

Moscow, Fune 15. We have received from Persia the

following particulars of the Resolution laf year in Per.

fia. When the army ot P. Thamas had been reinforced,

he decached part under the command of the Cham Tach-

mas Kuli to go in search of the army of Fireff, com-

manded by the Cham Saida; which 2 Cenerals had

often engaged, some times one, and {metimes the other

having the advantage. During this time P. Thamas laid

siege to Schiran, and took it by storm : then hearing that

Efreff was gone from Sennar, with design to give him

battle, he marched to meet him. The z armies came

up with each other near Serbab-Mig-Mandafte; and Ef-

reff attacked P. Taamas with much fury § or 6 times,

but wasrepulfed. The battle at last became general, and

Efreff loft it, and fled with the broken remains towards

I{pahan, putting all to fire and sword, to hinder the tub.

fiftance of P. Thamas’s army. He afterwards took with

him all the treasure, and his Wives; and retired to the

frontiers of Turky with about 4900 men. His army

disbanded themselves, and the General, the Cham Saida,

retired to follow his Milter. P. Thamas marched to

I{fpahan, the capiral of Pertia, into which he made a tri-

umphal entry in November last. D. P.

Madrid, fune 2. The Troops are actually in full march

for the respective Sea-Ports, where they are to begin to

imbark thé rgth or zoth of next month, Jd/d.

— woe

_— => 7

Collar of the Order of Si Andre¥e, of whith the Em-«

press made a present to Count Wratiflaw, is the fan.e

which the late Czar wore, end is valued at'2§,000 Rix-

doilars. did. me

Hamburgh, ¥ 7 Letters ftom Swerin import, that

D. Cha. Leopaid {ent out daily detachments to view the

Pafts possessed by the Troops of execution; which, ha

ving received & reinforcement, were making a retrench-

ment to block up Swerin: thesinhabicants whereof have

represented to the D. that they bad nor provisions tute

ficient to fubfitt atnonth, and dsfired him to permit

tiem to ind a Deputarion to the [mperiai Commission

at Rostock, to desire permission to have some brought

thems but he bad answered, that he would ask octhing

of his enemies, snd hoped to be soon able to draw them

out of this dificulty. D. 7.

Melazzo in Sicily, May 20, On the 2d and :d in the

morn. a fice broke ont ia ore of the Hemp-ware-hevies

upon the key; and taking hold of the ady.iring Wares

houses ef pitch and tar, they were ail laid in sfhes in icf

than 2 hours. The wind (ec'og hard off the shore, the

veflals in ) were deftreyed,

nsroour took fre, and 22

Soh, all she ahaa ~~ , P

wit aw the goo¢s Ou beard. 400 or 500 petfous lof

their lives. P,

Tyurspnay, Fula,

Hagus, Faly 0i. The States of Holland being tiforme

ec, th: some of the London News-papers had exigge

rated the tlory of «he Sedomites in their country; and

mace ninion of disturbances, and othe Circumstances

for which ‘licre Was no ground; they P opefed to fed

infractions wo Mynheer Hop to comp'ain thereof, rhacthe

fad persons may be more cautivis for the iucure. P.

This morn. arrived the Mail vie trom Holand.

_ Rome, Fare 24. The hopes Card. ( ditacins bad en

fund. last seem to be vanished. That morning he bad

9 votes, andin the atrernoon 20. bur the nexe day he

had but 2¥. Card Bentivogho, Niinifler ot ¢ Pan deciar’d

agantt him. Card, talconieri now fan's a, cod « hance,

beg supported by the itenedctine Party, and wan ing

ony the Card. Caimeriengo’s intercit, which he is ene

deavouring to gain. WB

Leghorn, Fanart. ian Costica chure ate _6.¢

harms Joe.

Milan, Fave 24, Count Merci arr'ved here the

We are about to fend 10,co> men upon a dese

1 .?

OO rebels

aif,

. , t expe=

dition, Jé-d.

Hambour7h, Faly 1. Our Lk advices Hon Direzick

import, that they had received advice, tha’ D. Post nad

of Courland was Cead near Libau, in the 76ch year of hia

age. LL.

liexna, Fume 28. Ui

the number of 6o-

in their way to Ni;

cion of a defiza

coms. S. F. Z.

Paris, Fuly to. On the ath an express arrived from

Vier ns, with the Em eror’s long expected answe:. which,

it is assured, is not fo favourable as was hoped. 17 B,

s Imperial Majesty®’s Trosps, to

Tie

» filed off yefkerday towards I yrol,

’ ae ‘4 c =»

pics and Siciiy, there being much fu; pi-

by Spain agaiatt one of thote King-

On Tueflay Stocks were

South-Sea 103 5 Sihs, to 3qrs. South’ Sea Anouity

to7 5 Sths. Bank 1427 Stiis. India seo. Three pec

Cent, Annuity 97. Alricanas 1 half. Royal Exchange

Assurance 9@ London Assurancet2 + 8th. ~ York Builds

ings 13 aqr. South SeaBonds § |.

ge 2s. Premiuin. Ine

disditra 51. 98. ditto, Milion Bank 107 thalt Nev

Bank Circulation 81, § 9, per Cent. Premium. Benefics

1710 Years Purchase.

D. bent, 6 per Cent. Discount

Welehk dittle a !. £2 6,

g iq. Wevis and St. Christ,

Bugith Copper 31. 10%,

Th: Courlo ef the Exchinge. °

Amsterdam 34 7 Madrid 42 3 Sthe

Ditto at Sight 344 Bilboa 42

Rotterdam 34 7428

Antwerp 35 a f

Hamburgh 33 2

Parisatiight32 thalfaz Sths

Bourdeaux at fight 3a 3 8.hs

Cadiz 42 3 oths

Leghorngi tr 4th

Genoa §4 t halt

Venice 4)

! isbon ¢ 3.64,

Portoss. ¢d.1 4th

Dublinio 3 4thsas Sths

Prices of Goods at Bear Key on Mon tay.

per Quarter p* Quarter

Wheat == :4 fo 50 Hog Peas =~ 3§ to 17

Rye =—— 13 to 14 Boiling Peas——12 to 2g

Barley ——-I2 to 14 Pale Mit — 13 to 20

Oats —— 8 to 13 6] BrownMat— 14 to tg

Horse Beans 15 to 2 Tares ———— 183 to 26

Coals 21 #. to 23s. pet Chaldron.

Hops 1728 — 208. to a8s. per liundred,

Hops 1729 — 306. to 508. per Hundred.

Rape Seed 131. to tal. par Lait,

I OO a et ane ec ag ae te

at + , Seg , * re "— Mey, oe iy pts a BS nie i lta sie nee

B + ee aS 3 wrt Be tI gee ee

Viewtid, Fone 28,« Ure hete fot thet the

ee)

[Page 4]

ADVERTISEMENTS.

donctus Corny, and th

The Advereures of the three Brothers, George, Patrick

ant Ancsew, re M |

fhiwn to be evident Proo’s of ifs Biches.

drew’s Day, »nd the Drap2r’s Bi.th-day.\—The Hard-

ships at rhe Luth being deprived of their Silver, and de-

coy'd into America :

his For. wpe i he Pheatant and the Lark: «A. Fable.

temple-gate in Fleet-street.

yom See

This Day is published,

AN Essay upon Poetry and Painting, with relation to

A the Sacred and Prophane History. With an Appendix concerning Obscenity in Writing and Painting,

Ut Piciera Poefis,

Da'iturque Licentia fumpoa pudentcs.

Difce docendus adlue quid cenfet amiculus +

Ut fi Cacus iter monfirare velit.

By Charles Lamorte, D. D. F.R.S. Member of the

of Antiquarics, and Chaplain to his Grace the D.

of Montagne; printed for F. Fayram at the South En-

eet the Royal Exchange, and J. Leake, Bookseller

at Hath.

Now in the Preis,

And will be published in three Wesks,

THE Life of A OHAMED. Translated from the

French of the Count of Bonlainviliicrs, Author of

The prefen: State of Frince, and the hitiorical Mcmoiis

thereto subjoined.

This Day is published, :

N Epftle from Rome to Mr. Pope. Printed for

J. Koberts near the Oxford Arms in Warwick-Lane,

Price 444.

Lately published,

Finely printed in Two ¥clumes Foiio, Price 32 35.

ESTMONASTERIUM: Or, The History and

Antiguities of the Abbey Church of St. Peter's Wett-

miniter: Contvining an Account of its ancient and mo-

dern Building, Endowments, Chappels, Altars, Reliqucs,

Cuftems, Puvie; & Forms of Governnent, &c. with the

Copics of encicn. Saxon Charters, &c, and oter Writings

relating toic. Together with 2 parccular History of the

Lives of the Abbors collected fom ancient MSS. of that

Convent and Historians; and the Lives of the Deans to

this Time; and alfoa Survey of che Church and Cloy-

fters. By John Dart.

To which is added, Westminster-Abbey. A Poem,

Printed tor Tho. Bowl’s, PrintSWer in St. Paul's Church-

Yard, and Jer. Batley, Bookseller in Pater-nofter-row.

N. B. This Work ic adorned with 149 of the Monu-

ments in the said Cherch, curioufiy engra. en by the best

Hands on Folio Copper Plates: Tovether with a Plan

and several Proijyéts oftphe Churth. Also the Laft Judcg-

mert by Michael Angel. A {mall Number are printed on

an Imperial Paper, Price sl. 5s,

BOOKS printed for Jer. Batley at the Deve in Pater-

Nofler-Row,

HE geneva} History of the wait Continent and Islands

of America, commonly called the Weit-Indies, from

the fi. ft Discovery thereof: With the beit Accernts the

poople « “Ud g ve of their Antig.ucies, Colle€tid from the

Origincl Relations fent to the King of Spain. By Anto-

nio ce Honea, Historiographer to his Catholick Majesty.

Tisn{eted into Enftlith by Capt. John Stevens. In Six

Volumes, Uuftr.ted with Cuts and Maps.

Astronom cal Dialogues between a Gentleman and a La-

dy, wher:in the Dottine of the Sphere, Uses of the

Globts, and the Elements of Astronomy and Geography

are explained in a plcatant, cafy, and familiar Way, with

a Description of the omous Instrument ca!l’d the Orrery.

By John Kariis D. Db. and & RLS. The 2d Edition,

correétec Sy George .o don.

A New Journey through Greece, Egypt, Palestine, Italy,

Swifferiay.)', A'fatia, and the Netherlands. Written by a

F enci Ofc ¢ who travelled those Countries in the Years

y7°r, 22, and 23. Now first done into English by Mr,

Morgin.

This Day ‘s publishes, ina neat pocket Volume, Price 2s,

6 ce we iccon. Edition with Addinons of

HE Inclligencer, By the celebrated Author of the

Tale of, Tub. ;

Cmre vater wiriunh videnti Tlatcus amico |

Targit, & Adm pus curcum jrecordia ledit, Perf.

Cin cining, Tucinueyp able Temper of S mire Wether.

A Vindieaton of Mr. + av, and the Beggar’s Opera.

The Folly of + amirg ———- A Description ot what the

World calls Dilreti n———— A_ Represen‘ation of the

present Condition of [cand—-——— ‘The s of

Corvfod: s end Eu nio. ————- A Dialo , se between Mul-

ae ~ —-———

5 -

liniz and Ti hy. ——— The foolith Methods of Edu-

tion among ihe Nobility.--———Tin, and Gay’s Fables,

e-- Propofass in Prose 2nd Verse tor an universal View

Sir

ot the emin nr Writers of the holy Scriptures —

Ralph che Pose fot curn’d Courticr -——The Art of storys

telling. —-——- Promethus’s Artof Man-makinz, ard the

The Services the Draper his

Yrit 4

Scps taken to rain i.

Tale of a 1—1d. -

The Marks of Ireland’s Poverty,

St. An-

Dean Smedley gone to feek

Printed for, and fold by Francis Cogan, at the Midd!e-

or This Day is publishe},

A Description of Three Hundred Animals, viz. Beasts,

_ birds, Fishes, Serpents and Anfeéts, With a particular

Account of the Wialee Fishery, Excraéted out or the beit

Authors, and adipzed to the Ufeot all Capacities, efpec.-

ally co alure Children co read+ Illuttrate 1 wich Copp: r

Plates, whercon ts curiously engraven, e ery Beat, Bid,

Fith, Serpent or Infect, defcished in che whole Book,

Printed for Richard Wareat the Libleand Sun in Amen-

Corner; Thomas Boreman, the Corner of S. Clement’s-

Lane, without Temple-Bar, and Tho:nas Game, at the

Bible in Pr.nes’s-street, Drury-Lan-. Pree bound 2 s.6.d

Also may be had, just published, at the ame Places,

(For the Use of Schools) the third Euition, ot

1, The Faoics of Phedrss, (who was m dea Denizen

of Rome by Auenttus Caiar) wider the following Heads,

viz. The Weakeit gnes to the Walls Chuse the caft ot

Evils; Be content in vour Station; All cover all tole s

Keep not too great Company, &c. Kender’d ince familiar

English, by Tho. Dyche. Price rs.

,2 Emblems for tie Entertain:rent and Improvement of

Youth, containing hieroyiy phical and cnigmatical De icc#

relaiing to all Parts and ‘tutions of Life; rover wi

Explanations and Prove-bs in French, Spanish, Lalian onc

Latin, alluding to them, tranflaced into English. T

—— catouty engraved on 62 Copper Flaites. Price

zs, 64d,

3. The compleat Constable, directing Constables, Read

boroughs, Tything-men, Churcii-waidens, Overseers of

the Poor, Sui veyors of the Hizhway, and Scivanzeis, in

the Doty of their Office, accord:nz to the Power allows:

them by the Laws, Pricer s

4. Tradesman’s Gude, Containing a Lift of all the

Staze Coaches and Carriers: with an Account of all tie

Fairs and Market Towns :n England, Pricers.

Ju padlished

ROPOSALS for Printing by Subscriprion ;

beautiful and core€t Fuition of ROBERTI

SLFPH ANI Thefaurus Lingua Latine. Comnparcd

with the best Editions of the Clatlics, the Refe:c.c s ad-

justed and suppiied by. MARTYN, F.ik S and

the whole corrs€ted and revised from the Press v

KR. RUSSEL, M.A. .

The great Ufeiulncfs of this Work having read rd it

fearce (tho’ it has p2fled four Impxefhions) tiat the beti

Edition is now fold for ac leat sixteen Pounds, it is pre-

fumed that the Re-printing of it, wih these Impiovaven's,

will be Very acceptable to a! the Learned in Europe

This Work :s to be printed from the last Edition

(printed at Lyons, containing 653 Sheets, divided into four

Tomes) and wil! be rendered mach more useful, by citing

not only the Books but Chapters of the Prose Authors,

and even the Lines of tie Poets; which berg adapted

to this: improved Editions of the Classics, wedouvt not will

be *& agreeable to the Studious, a9 laburious to the Edirors,

Ic will be printed in the same Manner, and on a8 sound

Paper, as the Speciren annexed to the Propofais,

he Price: to Subscribers will be fix Guineas 2 Sett in

Sheets; only one to be paid down, twoon the Delr ery

of the first Volume (which will contain about 170 Sheets)

and one more for each of the other three Valui.es,

Some Copics will be priated on a larger Paper for the

Curious, a¢ nine Guineas a Sittin Sheets; t« 0:0 he paid

down, two for the first Volume, two for the second, ons

for the third, and two for the lait.

As focn as 200 are subscribed for, the Work shall bs

put to Press,

The Names and Titles of the Subfecibers will be pre-

fixed to the firit Volurne.

When the Subfer‘ption is closed, the Price will y+ rie

fed to eight Guineas for the small Pape, ane welys tie

large.

eccipts for the Subscription-Money ate signe’ by a:

the Proprietora, whch they will pay into the Fran's.

Frazeis Child. Eiq, Alderman, and retarn it to rhe Su fori.

bers by Chifmas next, if there is nor Ciffic ent E ccousag. -

ment to proceed.

Subscripcions are taken in by the é d'tore , and F Rate

fey, at the Dove in Pater-Nofer Row; ff Vandeniarck, at

Virgil’s Head, over-againt tic N w Church in e@ Strand

F. Cogan, at the MiddleeTemple-Gate, Fleot-Sirse! 3 2nd by

the Printers, S. Paémer and 7. Hue gonjon, in Bartholumew-

Close.

BOOKS printed and fold by Join Brotherton at the

Bible next the three Tan Tavern in Cornhill.

Ddin’s Works, 4 Vol. | King’s H. Gods

in 4to. Blau’s Sermons, § Vol-8vo,

Gay's Fables. : Gordon’s Grog, Grammar,

Mandevill’s Free Thouzhts J Platarch’s Lives,8 Vol 8vo.

aoe Ditto Fable of the Becs, ' Milton’s Paradise loft,

2 Vol. . Ditto rezain’d,

——Ditto Virgin unmask'd, | Clarenjon’s History, 6 Vol.

—— Ditto Hypochondriaek | Guardians, 2 Wol,

Royer’s Telemschus, 2 Vol, | Cooke's Detsttion, 3 Vol.

Pigrim’s Progress. Rojlcau Oeuvre Poetique.

Muftesl Diéttonary. Coll Stion af Novels.

Buchinaham’s Works, 2 Vol. | Shake!pear’s Plays,

Rover’s Dictionary gbrida’d. | Ovid’s Epiftlcs.

Pope’s Homer's Iliad, 6 Vol | ——~-Ditto Artof Love.

———Dirco Odyfy’s, 5 Vol. | Abelard’s Letters.

This Dey at 8 in the Morning Will cofittnue the §

Library, contained in

cote

1

A CATALOGUE of above two thavfind Books

. History, Antiquity, D:vinity, Heraldry, law, Physick?

Surgery, Poetry, Plays, Trade, Hu@andiy, Architecture,

and other parts of polite Literature, in Enzlith, Latin

Greck, French, &c. Among which are, :

t O: Tilloifon’s Sermons, 3 Vol.

k

Hollingthead’s Chronicle, 3%.

with the Castrations.

Montiaucon’s Antiquit. 1ov.

Burtan’s Liecefterdaue, King’s

Vale- Royal of Ervland, aed

ether curious Apuguities of

Givers Counrries.

Sit Willism Dugdale’s Sum-

mons to larliamenc.

C@mden’s Britannia, L. P.

Vercor’s Hilt. of the Kaizhrs

of Malra, « vol, =

Fox’s Book of Martyrs, 3 vol.

best Kdidon, Royal Paper.

lisenden’s tilt, of the Re-

‘one 7 yol.

Whidy on the New Tet. 2 y,

tis mmonde’s W orks, 3 vol,

Statuces at large, 3 vol. wir

pont’ Bs 35 Vol. with

Levinza’s, Savnder’s, Yelyer.

ton’s, Ventris’s, Hutton’s, Hae

barc’s, Coke's, Dycr's, end

Othe: Reports,

Cr ke’s, Kaftall's, Brown's

Biow nlow’s, Handfarw’ and

other E-tries, ne

Chamber’s Difiionary, 2 y

Jacob’s Law. Dictionary.

Ci fms of Normandy.

Terencing, Juvenalis, Martial

aud ocher Claflicks. 7

sot Hu. best Edie. * Febiin’s, Baker’s (best) and

y vf London, 2, ©her curious Chronicles.

Ptonthe L. Pe | Snopes Anatomy of a Horse.

tne r, Mowtons Hiitovia Plantarum,

ninebile, Svohcomp. | 2 vol,

cz Sola heap, tha lowell Price Ax'd in the

vide

Tro. Corsets Shop, at

mnt Oo 8 The Roje-Tavern wichoge

cooly te foconrinue every Day tii all are Sold,

Siray ov bad at th. fo..09wing Coffec-Harme

Viz, | Sagat Weimmeer-ball-Gate, Wiilia> >, Sep

Jit IN Fa WWer-Squates Sgvires’s, briis. ge

of feawa Joui's, Oimond-fircets St Pauls, Std aul’s

Merch Yaids Ba sn g, NOVI XIN 3 ind atthe place

eo a boo may oo ud Reo eddoncy for any Library

hE, ut ors, coth air tud Valuc: Catalozucs token,

mei 1x: »dtaes anovalsd, or Sald by 4 uftion,

— 4.3 Way as puodihed

PAL ASPHEMY as eh

‘3 9

- Ga a8 ti

3

eR adele § a8 oli as Creation, or the

as OW OSG Uivine, fy Satire. Address'd to the modern

Advoca Sof Irrsit.ion, Prophaneness and Infidelity. By

@ €, Rix panei a Chrifinn, .

Ques fis: oc erro, quod animos hominum immorteles

oe @ oom, lisenter creo: Nee sthi hunc crrorem,

Preuciettors dum vise, extuqueri: ola, animas effe

immortales, -----—- qvicquid dixit, Omnium Anima-

rum Soeiis We. Tied.

Printed to. Lawten Gilliver at Homer's Head in

Fleet-street.

a Where may be had, just prdlithed,

~ how niiton of the Dunciad, with tome additional

Nots ani T. \s1ams.

Ancow icsstion ot the Arter Poliicks, with a curious

Fror.tiipicce Rifim teneatis Amici?

Pwo cpifiisto Mr, Pope, eoncern'ng the Authors of

the ge. By the Author of tne Universal Pafions,

T ¢ i4erehant. A Naval Lyrick. By the fame Author.

Au Vpitt'c co tue Earl of Chesterfield ua the prefnt Si-

won of Aff-ius.

cere, T were + 5 ariel

Dr. sa, OD FREY’s General Cordial,

oe untverfally approved of for the Cholick, and all manner

of Pa usr the Bowels, Fiuxes, and Reftlefsness in Mea, Woe

me, and Ciléven,

I Siod in m. > Citks, Boroughs, and ‘Market-Vowns

throughout (i cat-Br.iain and Ireland; remov’d from

tr antdon to Broxborn in Liertferdthire, and for the Con-

veuency of fipply.ns all those parts, I have established

tied Followtos Wholetale Warehouls, viz.

folin MW ettlake’s in Q scen-iticcr, Bristol;

Pevr Leadoeater’s, Ditiller, in Weft Chesters

Mr. * utton’s. Boul:feller, on the Bridge at Neweastle

ype Pyne;

M..i ootes, Diftiiler, on the Biind-key, Dublin.

As she atm Original \s a:ehoute in Bishop{gate-street,

L niton.

Ali Merchoncs, Shoopkeepers, and others, may be fup-

plied -eenvo the ‘aid Warehousis, with good Allowance.

N.B. The Puolick are defir-d ra t. ke Norice, (to pre-

vent: ocing Pe poted on) that tiere isan ill minced Person

who coun fe ts the tai! Medicine, and puts the Name of

Godfrey yn ts top of the bottles, and in his Bills given

with ty Berths che is no Name who the Pelton is that

prem, <i 5 bu: as chisCountufiic Maker is now tound

ont oy his awn Cor? Fon, he and his ScUc_s will be profe-

card as the Law directs (as Tupefiors): And to prevent

le

i

Tully.

er

[ne ee

the Baycrs from being impos’d on, [have pat my Cirrittt

an Name on the Top of cath Boule, which is prepared

By m2 Benjani: Godfrey, M.D.

Jhe price ef cach Beale ts 6d.

For the Benefit of these wre ce 2tFided with the

DROPSY.

Elizabeth Knell, who lives next Door to the Baker and Basket in Middle-ftrect, Clota-fair, neti MW" ft-smithfield,

STILL continws to perform great Cures in the said Diftfemper, on both Sexes, and all Ages.

N.B. An Account may be had at the Place aforesaid.

LONDON: Printed by Mr. Moore, for Captain Gulliver, near the Temple, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in.

[Price Two Pence.]

