Number 25

‘The Grub-street Journal

— a *

he » may a «bi:

Thursday, 7 UN E 25, 1730.

For A bis magic pen evokes an O.

Dr. Young’s 1 Epift. to Mr, Pope.

The folowing Letter comes from the fame learned Gen-

ticmaa, who tient that whch was printed in our Journal, Ne ‘2. containing that admirable emendation of

fell g inktead of smelling gourd, in Paravice Lost;

B. VII. 321.

To Mr. Bavius, Secretary to the Grubean Society,

STR,

wea TT AVE been lately reading the first beok of

m Mitton’s Paradise loft critically, with are-

xy, foluicn to find as many faults as I could,

foi as Well of the Author himself, as of his ig-

S269} norant or supine Transcribers and Pubiithers.

These of ih

emer force I shall mention anoth: time:

two o: chtee of the latter I wiil give you ac present.

Thimmuz came next behind, 446°

Whof annual wound in Lebanon allur’d

Th Syrian Daexfele to lament his tate

Inarscrous ditties 2} a Summers day ;

Whic fmocth adoxis trom his native rock 459

Rao purple to the fea, supros’p with blood

' OF Thammuz yearly wounded.

Suppos'd :u ver. 454. is either non-sense, or at best ex-

treme'\ flit: inf@le.d of which, I suppose the Author wrote

fuffies'd with dlaod, from fuffandi sanguine or rubore, for

infiti Or coi:? ari.

The rest entire

Shone with a gloffly {curf, undoubted sign,

That in his womb was bard metallic Ore, 673

The work of Sulphur.

Read was hid, as some editions have it.

A second multitude

With wond’rous art found out the mafly Ore. 703

Tt is evident that the Author wrote founded. The

Ore was found out before, ver. 638.

Soon had his crew

Open’d into che hil a spacious wound,

An? cig’a out ribs of gold.

I intend to read the second Book, when I have leisure;

and if I meet with any thing, which I think new and

true, I shall fend it you. It is my real opinion, Mir.

Bavius, that we shall never fee the moles and warts in

learned Authors removed, unless we read more B——ano;

and suspect, that no page is tree from the mistakes of ig-

worant Tranicfivers, Typographers, and Editors, who

are trequently Corruptors, rather than Correctors of new

Editions Iam Yours,

May 2. 1730.

PHILARCH AUS,

Mr. Mavius strongly confirmed this last emendati-

on by observing, that the Author had plainly diilin-

guised the different parts which the fallen Angels bore

in this wonde:ful work. In the first place, some dug

the mine oi Ore.

- Soon had his crew

Open’d into the hill a spacious wound,

And dig’d out ribs of gold,

Next, after a digression of 9 lines and a half, succeeds

the founding or melting it by others.

Nigh on the Plain in many cells prepar'd,

Thit underneath had veins of liquid fire

Slue’d from the Lake, a second muliitude

With wond’rous art founded the mafly Ore,

Severing each kind, and fcum’d the bullion drof3,

Then immediately follows the casting it in a mould,

last prepared, which compleated the whole work.

A third as soon had ‘orm’d within the ground

A various miuld. and from the boiling ceils

By strange conveyance fili’d each hollow nook ;

As in an Orgar, &c.

Where, within the compafs of 2@ verses, we plainly

fee the three different parts of this prodigious work, per-

rorm’d by three different companies of Ange!s.

The following emendation came inclosed in a Letter,

With assurance that it was taken from the mouth of a

very Great man: upon which account, the Society or-

dered it to be printed; at the same time, advising al!

Little men to forbear such audacious Hypercriticism. ‘To

form a new reading upon the alteration of fops or

letrers, where there is some {mail timilituce betwixt tke

changed and the fubftiruted letters or words, is a very

commendable kidd of Criticifn. To ths as we owe

the restitution of many corrup: places in ancient Au‘hors

to their original beauty; fo the use of it, even with re-

{pect to the Moderns, evidently appears from the inflan-

ces given by Puictarcu aus, in this ind his toimer

letter; and we hope he wi!’, accordinz to his promise, go

through the who'e Poem of Parad fe lof but co alter

whole words, solely by conjeGture, without the Ica't

foundation in the text, we cannot think ciluwable, and

to fubftirute ether chard or chalé, inttead ot cheese And

yet you will find the Critic has procesded even farther,

in the altcration which follows.

Book VI. Lise soy.

Up they turned

Wide the Celestial fuie, and faw beneath

Th originals of Nature in their crude

Conception; sulphurous asd nitrous Voam

They tound, they ming.ed, and with fabtil art

Concocted, and adutted they reduc’d

To b'ackeit grain, and into flore convey'd.

Very pretty, truly! as if the Devil, whodeals fo much

in Charceal, shou'd nor know, that there’s no making

Gon- powder without it. ——~ Why, the meercft Novice

in Hell could have told bim fo. Nay, *cis plain, it

was in the original Recipe.

They reduc’d

To blackest prain —

Read it thus, and fay I bid you.

Su'phurous and nitrous Foam

They found, they mingled, ang wish fubtil are

Concotted 5 then with Charcoal they reduc’d

To blackest grain, &c.

I know one of the Clavifim that reads,

in their crude

Conception; Siphur, Cra c, and nitrous Foam

They found, &c.

But how they shou'd find Chare among th’origivals

of Nature I con’t apprehend, une.s they carried it im

their pockets.

I cannot pass by this useful Invention to Mankind (fcr

such we must allow it to be, if we give the Devil his

cue) without testifying my grantude to the inge: tous Mr

Woon, tor his noble Schzme of founding won with pr-

coal; which, as aflairs now fland, | take to be of the

utmost consequence to the Nation: fer it we coniume

ail aur wood in fouading great guns, “tis Certain we

(hall have no charcoa! left fur powder tocmploy them.

The following Copy came from the Author of the Satire

intituled, Lie/phemy as old as the Creation.

To Mrs. M. H. on her workirg a coat in {ilks.

\ HEN Mira’s hands her needle thread,

What gaudy scenes our eyes surprize ;

To view a grove, or flow’ry bed,

Beneath her showy fingers rife!

In every leaf such beautiss dwell,

So fair they {pread, fo fuil they bloom;

Her skilifui fingers far excell

The painter’s quill, or artist’s loom.

On the rich bed freth rofes blown,

The jefmin and the myrtle meet;

And, as they mingle, seem to own

More fair her cheek, her breath more sweet.

That lilly from her hand fhe lock ;

Which with the show in whrteness vies;

That bright carnation trom her tuok,

That flining amarant from her eyes.

Those opening buds but halt revea’d,

Tauat promise {von a tairer hue,

Shew like her breasts with lawn conceal’d,

Which boast their sweets and foftnels tea.

What tho’ the abiene fun retir’d

The naked field no lonzer warms?

Each b'cffom, by her art infp*d,

Cpeas as wid:, 2s paylytharms.

Thy flow’rs for ever hold their prime,

Nor frosts, sor chiling winters fear;

Since near thy hoop, that-happy climes .

’Tis {pring, or summer ali the year.

Pity, lov’ Maid, that envious yous

Thy youth thou’d hurt, thy sweets consume;

Wh.n wrougke by ‘hee, each bud appears

Uachang’d, and always is its bloom.

Each youth with thee must surely grieve > sory

The partialrigour ef the sky;

That Mira’s works must bloom and live;

When Mira’s b-auties face and die,

A few fair months our gar ene charm,

Now flourish, and anon decay:

Each feaion ot thy coat is war,

And every verdant month ts May!

Let autumns then the lilly hide,

Our rofes blaft, our myrtles chills

When seated close to Mina’s fide,

Tis June, o1 fravrant Apvil still.

Vittotious nymph ! whose hand has done

Beyond wesk na ure’s fainter power:

Waking cach pint without the fun;

Swelling each bud without the shower."

When every field beside is seen

Robb’d of its pride; we here beheld

Gay {preading tems of lwely grecn,

And yellow fruit of ripening pold.

A King at arms difsrm’d at law.

unknown hand,

YF fair injur'd Nymphs, 2nd ye Beaux whe deeeive’em,

Who with paliion engage, and without reason

leave ’em;

Draw near, and attend, how the Hero I ling

Was foid by a Girl, tho’ at Arms ke was King,

Il.

Crests, Mottos, Suppters, and Reariaes kneve he,

And ceep.y was studied inold Pedigree ;

He wou'd fitawho'eevening, end noc without ranture,

Tell who begot whom, to the end of the chapter.

lil.

In forming his tales, nought griev’d him, but solely,

That the Man died Caled., or e'fe five Profs:

A Satrapty an

Ac latt, laving trac’. othe:s camiies dowz,

He begs to have thoughts of increating bis own,

IV.

A Damsel he chof*, not coo flow of belief,

And tain wou’'d be deenivd her adainver in chief

He blazor’d his suit, and the tum of his tale

Was idts field and ber feld, join’d party per pile,

In different Mle, to tye tatter the noose,

He next would attack ler ia doft billet doux:

This Argens and cable Were said aude quite 5

Pian Luyath he wiote, and in pain black and wh'te.

VI. ‘ |

Against such 4rchievements, what Beauty could faces

Or who would have thou, ht it wasall but pretence?

His pain to relicve, and tu fil his detire,

The Lady agreed to jain bands with the ‘Squire.

Vi,

The ‘Squire, in a fret, that the jeit went so far,

Consider’d, w:th fpeee, how to put ina Barr;

fiis words bound not him, since hers did ot confine hers

And thac is plain Law, oecaute Miss is a iinor.

VIII.

Miss briskly reply’d, that the Law was too hard,

If fe whois Minor, may nor be a W :

In law then confiding fe took it upon ber,

By Justice to mend inefe tou: breaches ci boncur,

Ix.

She handled him fo, that few won'c (I warrant,)

Have been in his Coat, on 10 fl ecele/s an Errand.

She mace him pive bond for ttanrp’d Argent and Or;

Ang fabled his Shield, with Gubes blaxon d vetore,

a> me

as

as

oe ee ‘

; Ar 9 e. . & *% -

_ Ye Heralds, produce, from the time of the Nosmans,

Ta aii your records, such a bafe non-pertormance :

Or if without initance the Cafe is wé touch on;

Lec this be fer down a$ a Biot in bis Seutcheon.

LONDON.

THURSDAY, Fure 18:

Yesterday a Solicitor was committed by the Court

of Common-pleas, for serving copies of a Writ; when

he had notany original. Cour.————Tiis is not accounted

male practice among our Fraternity; st being very common

for our Sollicitors to serve heir Patrons, with copies of

“Translations, of which they cannot produce any original.

The fame day an Attorney of the King’s-Bench, who

lives in Gloucestershire, was struck off the liit for trau-

dulent practices; and an attachment was issued to. take

him into custody. Ibid.

Mr. Franklin, the Book-fel'er, was discharged from his

recognizances. did.

ar Fi:zgerald, a Sollicitor, committed last monday,

[for perjury] was yesterday bailed. D. Fournal,

Tuesday a general Court of the Welch copper Comps-

ny was held in Phi'pot lane, where it was icfoived by a

great majority, to impower their Court of Atiiltants to

enter into all amicabie measures to accommodate the

differences with Mr. Moork, which was originally dpi-

rited up again him by the enemres of that Company.

And as it is not doubted but a refoution of th’s kind

will engage the zeal of the Assistants to {peed an accom-

modation; fo the consequence of it will assureay an-

fwer the expectation of al] well-wishers to.that Compa-

ny’s prosperity. Poy Bey. — Upon the reading of

shis paragraph @ great admirer of the Woolitonian A'lego-

ries, told the Society, that this was @ propherical directicn

40 them, what to do in relation to mn affair, which bad

Jately made some noise. He therefore proposed, that the

Socizty would impower aComiuiiee to enter into ali ami-

cable me.fures to accommodate the difference with Mr.

M—rz, alias Smith, which was likewise originally {pt-

rited up against him by the enemes of this Sockety: and

concluded, that the coni.quence would assuredly answer the

exp:ctation of all agp rag to che prosperity of Grub-

et. But it passed in the negative.

p35 died te hn Noble, a noted Anabaptist Mini-

fter; and yesterday John Lloyd, E.q; an eminent New-

England Merchant. Ibid.

Yesterday morning a young Woman, well dressed,

about 19, undressed herself at the New Pond near Ifling-

ton, tied her cloaths in a new riding-hood, leaped in,

and drowned her self, tho’ taken out very soon. oid. —

One would smagine, that this young wufortunate woman

designed only to cool her self this hot weather; fhe being

she first, that ever I heard of, who undressed, in order to

drown her (elf.; 7

We hear that several persons, proprietors of old East-

India stock, at the time of the durrender of that Com-

y's charter, agreed to accept, and have received 1].

¢6. per cent. in satisfaction of their interest, from the

surviving Trustees 5 with whom a suit has been depend-

ing many years in Chancery : and the payment is con-

tinued, at the present East-India house in Leadenhall-.

fireet, where the accounts lie open for the perufal of any

one concerned, Daily Post.

Mr. ‘Steph. Fecham, of Bristol, having been found

guity, on the Coroner’s inquett, of killing 8 persons

with a gun, was yesterday arraigned at the King’s-Bench

bar, and pleaded his Majesty’s pardon. These p-rfons

were killed at an insurrection of the Weavers at Bristol

last September, with design to make their Matters give

a shilling per piece more for long ells. Daily Fournal.

Dr. Creflel, who has a living in Shropshire, is made

Dean of Clogher in Ireland, in the room of Dean Berkley,

who is gone to relide at Bermudas. Even. Pof?.

Weft, the Waterman, mentioned in our last, as fent to

Newgate, for having cafnal knowledge of Eliz. Lardan,

London, or Loudon, in a forcible manner; is by the

Post 17, and the Even. Poff 13, only said to have got

in at her window, and to have done it in her cep. On

which a ebferved, that the forcible manner was

go be snderftoed solely of the manner of kis getting in at

w.

sae Be of the Rye Galley, Capt. Edwards, found

about 150 half anchors of brandy floating off Rye.

. es's Even.

” a. Cautes, Exceptions, and Demurrers after Trin.

Term, 173 Tue. June 23. I gen. seal. Wedn. 24,

26, 26, 27. 29. Cautes. Tuef. 30. HT gen. seal. Wedo.

July 5. Cautes. Thurs. 2. Frid. 3. Rehearings. Sat. 4.

Moad.6. Exceptions. Tacf. 7. 111 geo, seal. Wedn. 8,

9, 10. Exceptions. Sat. tr. Mond. 13. Pleas and De-

murrers. ‘Luef. 14. 1V.gen. seal. Wedn. 15. Thurs.16.

Petitions and causes by consent. Ibid.

We hear, that Mr. John Martyn, a Gentleman very

famous for his skijl in Botany, and other parts of Nat.

History, is proposed to succeed Dr. Rutty, as Secretary

to the R. Society. Lond. Evening.

George Warren, an eminent Merchant, residing at Mar-

feilles, died the 1oth iriftant. Ibid.

Fripvay, Fune 19.

Yesterday between 12 and 1, 2 houses fell down in

Henrietta-street, Covent-garden, and a 3d was much da-

maged. The people, ailarm’d some minutes before by

their cracking, got oat: Courant. The fame day a

house feli down in ’rince’s-street by Leicesterefields; but

no person received any burt. D Fourz.

Yesterday his R. H. the Duke, and the Earls of Che-

fterfield and Burlington, were instailed at Windsor, with

the usual grandeur and ceremonies. Courant. The ex-

pence is computed at sooo]. D, Paff.z0, |

Friday the D. of Norfolk arrived at Paris. Pof? Boy.

The L. Forbes, lately made Capt.Gen. &c. of the Lee-

ward Islands; some days since reigned chat agreeable com-}

mand, D. Feurn.

Wednesday night one Legard, a soldier, having had

some words with his \\ ite, beat her in a barbarous man-

ner, and told her he should die before morning: and accord-

ing:y he was found dead yesterday morning Courant.—

Proaps the Wfe, not liking this military way of taking

leave, contriiuted to the falling this prophetich reve-

lation,

SaTURDAY, Fune 20,

Tuesday was an iniuicttion ot the Weavers at Brain-

tree, who wens trom thence to Mr, Miles at Coggethal

‘whither they heard Mr. Brown of Braintree had tent

some iif yarn. They attemped to pull down Mr.

Miles’s house, and intulted the Juit:ces whi the ?rocla-

mation wes reading: upon which the soldiers fired, kil-

ling 4 p. fois, ana Wounsing 2 or 3. 2 were {ent to

Chelmstoru goal The mob having made a collection

for the burtai uf 1 of the persons killed, a Weaver of

Braintree, brought his corpf{e in a hearfe to Mr. Brown’s

door on Wednesday even. broke his windows, and com-

mitted several outrages, till Capt. Masterton, marchin

his men. ditperfed them, and took 3 into custody. The

yarn proved not to be Irith, but bought of Mr. So’,

Isaac of Braintree. Univ. SpeGator.

Yesterday a Nurie was taken out of the ruins of the

house im Henrictta-(treet: and, it is said, \“y. Edwin has

suffered near 5.00]. damage in his curious coileétion of

Pictures. D. Poff.

At the fittings of the Court of Common-pleas, Guild-

hall, a cause was try’d between 2 Gent. tor fighting ;

and a verdict of sol, with costs, was given against him

who struck che first blow. Poff Boy. This is not

according to the received maxim, The {:cond biow begins

the quarrel

Yesterday Will. Fortefcue, E{q; Sollicitor to the Prince,

went to kifs his Majesty’s hand, on his being appointed

one of the Barons of the Exchequer inScotiand. did.

The E. of Kinnoul, Ambaffader to the Grand Seignor,

arrived at Constantinople, May 4.N.S. Daily Fourn,

Yesterday morn. about 1 died ihe R. H. Tho. L. Tre-

vor, &c. at Peckham in his 77th year. D. Poff. About 3.

Cour. Between 4 and 5. Poff By. He went to bed

thuriday night in perfect health, was seized about 5 in

the morn. with a pain in his stomach, {upposed to be

the cholic, and expired in about an hour. He is fuc-

ceeded by his eldest fon Thomas. D. Journ.

By Mr. Chamber’s fine tor Sheriff, a foundation is

laid for building 4 maniion-house for my L. Mayor.

Craftsman.

We are informed, that some of the Sodomites, who

lately made their escape from Holland, are safely arrived

here: but, however, they have taken up their quarters

in a certain Evd of this vertuous Town, where they will

hardly be aé/e to corrupt cheir neighbours. Fog’s Four.—

I am of opinion, that ali Ends are very secure.

Co}. Charteris hath commenced a {uit against the H.

Bailiffof Weftmiofter, on account of the goods and chat-

tels seized by the said Gentleman. E.P. S. 7 L.E.

Monpay, Funerr.

Sat. morn, a man was found drowned in a pond by

Sir G. Whitmore’s, having his legs ty’d with his gar-

ters. C. D.P.

Ben. Darby and Tho. Baker, Efqss are appointed re-

ceivers general for Somersetthire, in the room of Tho

Penn, Esq: deceased. did.

Sir John Jennings, who in his late fall from his horse,

broke z ribs, bruised one leg, and his collar bone; is in

4 tau way of recovery. C,

Yesterday Sir Tho. Littleton’s eldest fon arrived ig

Town from his travels. C.P.

Sat. Francis Atwood, Esq; was married at Walton to

Miss Barb. Strode, Daughter of Wiil. Strode, Esq; a for.

tune of 13,000]. P.

Frid. night James Groves and Will.George were taken

by the Centinel in the Privy Gardens, being charged with

sodomitical practices; and were cofnmitted to the Gate.

house. D. 7.

Tuespvay, fune 23.

On Friday last a boy fell down the hold of the Kine

sale man of War at Portsmouth, by which means his

beily was fo cut, that his guts came out, and he died

soon after. Whitehall Even. —

Sunday last one Will. Williams, a soldier, was commit.

ted to Newgate by Christian Cole, Ef; tor tabbing Tho,

Whates in his throat with a {word, fo that his lite is jg

danger. Ibid.

Tho. Reeves, Esq; one of his Majesty’s Council at

law, will, ’tis said, be appointed Latin Secretary to his Ma-

jesty, in the room of Mrf Justice Lee. bid.

/ Yesterday the five Indian Kings, lately arrived from

“America, were admitted to a publick audience of his

“Majesty at Windsor, conducted by Sir Alexander Cum.

mins, who brought them over. His Majesty, by their

Iaterpreter, was pleased to ask them many questions:

They express’d the highest satisfaction for the kind ree

ception they had met with here, and promised to be ever

grateful to his Majesty’s subje€&ts in America for it :

‘They were shewn into the gallery over the terras, where

one of them desired leave to exercise his bow and are

row on the great Elk in the pak, to thew his Majest

a {pecimen of his dexterity; but he was told that could

not be complied with: They had severally the honour to

kifs the hands of his Majesty, the Prince of Wales, the

Duke &c. London Even.

They were afterwards conducted bick to their Inn at

Winfor, and ordered to be entertained, during their fay

there, at his Majesty’s expence. Ibid.

A few days ago a Gent. ot the Life-guar:’s and a

Horseegrenadier, on duty together, having dome words,

fought a duel in Tothii fiel:s; thelatrer giving ‘he terms

er, .s is thought, a mortal wounds for which he is

now uncer connnement. P.

Sund. Pet. Bluck, Gent. was committed ro Newgate

by Just. Burdus, having come voluntarily before him,

and signed aconfession, that abourFeb.19 gone — years,

he strangled his late Daughter Anne, a child aged ¢ years;

and thac he hath ever since been troubled in his conicie

ence for the said muder, D P.

The same night a Gent. was robbed over against S:

Clement’s Church in the Strand, by 2 Street-robbers, of

his warch, {word, and 9 gui.eas; one presenting a pi-

fto], while the other :obb’d him. D P. Yestercay

morn. about 2, Edm. Malone of the Temple. C 23

guineas, P.

Sund.-— Paunceford, Esq; kiffed his Majesty’s hand,

on being appointed one of his Council, and Soilicitor to

the Prince. D F.

Yesterday at the King’s-Bench, Gui’dhall, was tried an

Action brought by an Indepeadent Teacher against Eliz.

Chimber ain, for saying S.S. is a rogues and a druckard,

and I will trove him fo. S.S. is a vile fellow, u’ed to

sing bawdy fongs in an ale-house; is a libertine, and will

get drinkin an ale-house. Whereby Mr. Steedwel', who

had proposed to be of his congregation, and to be acon-

t:ibutor, had altered his resolution s and many had with-

drawn their subscriptions, The Defendant endeavoured

to jnitify the words, but could not. Whereupon the

Jury gave the Praintiff 10]. damages. D. F.

WEDNESDAY, Fune 24.

His Majesty has been pleasedto grant to the L. Lynne,

a Salary of 1500]. per Ann, for executing the office of

Master or the Treasurer of his Majesty’s Jewels, the tor-

mer salary of that office being but 890 1 peran, D. P.

Laft week the Committe tor the City fands lett outa

parcel of ground adjoining to Moorfields to Mr. Graves,

at rool. peran. and16001. fine, on a leate of 60 years,

to build on.

Edinburgh, Fure 11. Tuefd. died Dr. Will. Ruther-

ford of Barnhills, E{q; an eminent Physician: and yester-

day David Ross, Esq; late one of the Commissioners of

excise. C. 18, &c.

Dublin, Fune 6. Rich. Dickson the Printer was lately

taken into custody for pubiifhling the Cafe of Dan. Kim-

berly; but on great application, and owning his tault,

was soon discharged. D.F 18. °

Fune 13. Yesterday at the King’s-Bench came on the

Trial of the Rev. Mr. Tho. Sawbridge, for rav shing Suf,

Runcard of this City: but no evidence appearing, he

was acquitted. ‘Tis reported the Dean intends to im ict

her for Perjury, he being in the County of Weaford,

ee

Ape ae

Raa rate

‘a

a

ee ae

when fhe fwore the rape was committed in Dublin.

. 22, &C. . < SF ee . .

" Boston in New-England, May 6. Above 100 persons

were under inocu.ation in \.arch last. The imali-pox

continues to {pread in the natural way; Peopie being ve

ry much against inoculation, ieveral having died under it,

and some miserably, their bodies being deplorably mor:

tified; ard many who have survived are tull of humonrs

amost incurable. D 7, 22.

From the Pogafus in Grub street.

To Capt. Gulliver Bookiclier to the Society of Grub-streete.

IR

? - Is true, as is said in several News-Papers, that we

have had the greatest’ ttruggie here which has been

known for many years; becaute we have had no oppoti

tion tor thelaft 25 years: but yet the numbers poil'd were

not fo mary as at our « last El-ct.ons, which stood thus,

The Poll 1702 The Poll 1705 Tne Poll 1730.

dir Just. lfaam 230 2483 S.J. Ihham _ 2171

Tho. Cartwright Esq; «327 —— 2478 Westend Efy.2000

Lord Spencer 321. L. Mor aunt 2393

Sir Andrew St.John 20. § ——-———— 2176

According to some printed ~apers {pred about here,

Mr. Havbury’s fide fecm to complain ef foul play: ana

the charge is retorted by the other Party, who are atalofs

tothink, bow they should be to hard tet the second day’s

poll, without some ar'ful management; infomuch, thut

the Gentlemen for Sir Fuff. thought it necessary to ride

all night, to get imall tne votes they could in fo fhes: a

time mutter tor the nex: day; and by this means, carried

it by fo great a majority of fair votes, that they fay the

other fide durst not demand aicrutiny. On the contrary,

the Northampton Mercury fays, § A Scrutiny was desired,

* bur not granted, and Sir Fut. Ifbam, was declared ciect-

« ed’, The iaid Paper intimates, that Mr Hanbury in-

tends to lodge a petition, and that he expec: to succeed

therein. For add. he, * The next day, bewig che Auniver-

¢ fary of his Majesty’s accession to the thione, sir. Han-

* bury continucdia Northampton, with many or his trienus,

* and caused ali the belis in cown to be rung, and at nigh

* gave a large bonfire and several hogthcads of ale to th:

* populace (‘be Frecholders ’tis to be supposed were gore

* home) in memory of the day; when their Majestics,

¢ with ali the Royal Family, and many other loyal healths

¢ werc drank, withloud buzzas, trumpet founding, &c

¢ which (continues he) did not 4 littie disturb many per.

* fons, who opposed Mr. Haxbury’s election, and who

€ distinguished themselves ina very particular manner the

* day before.’ 1 can’t tell you, for what reason this au-

thor shou'd suppoie any person to be disturb’d at this

day’s rejoycings: but there is a very obvious one, why

he and his Friends were disturb’d at the preceeding day’s

joyful acclamations; for which they woud have been

lad to have had the occasion. Indeed, some of Sir

uftinian’s very wife opposers advised him not to be

chair’d after his being declar’d, because, forsooth, it was

the toth of June. Whether this fubtie advice was offers

ed in friendship. or that they could not bear to fee fo

worthy a Genileman triumph over them, I'll lesve you

to judge. However, it was not in his power to prevent

it; for the Freeholders seized him, and would do them-

{elves the pleasure to shew him about the Town before

their deperture, by carrying him in the Chair, as usual

with the loudeft acciamations; notwithstanding the vile

constructions that might be put on their behaviour there-

in, by those who were weak enough to make fo empty

an objection, the design of which was easily {een through.

But to return ro what we said of foul play: All that the

Lofers had to compiain ot, was, that several of the Cier-

gy, on whom they thought they might depend, went

entirely against them; and that a certain Lora’s Tenants

being drawn together to be led aside by false pretences,

the Steward came to undeceive them, and leave them to

their liberty: and these were truly mortifying accidents.

Upon the whole, the edge of opposition being thus a-

gain happily blunted; ’tis hoped in general, that the Peace

of the County will be preserv'd undifturb J, as long as

there is one of the worthy Familics (who have jointly

and honourably represented it for above these thirty yeare

pat) left to fuitain the character of their Prederefless :

to the end that we being in the heart of the Kiavdoni,

may continue to shew an exemplary conttancy and fi:me

ness to the Electors and E-eéted round about us. The

Publication of this will oblige the majozity of the Frec-

holders, and particularly,

Northampton, Dear Captain,

Fune 17.730. Your most humble servant T. H.

When the Society ordered the pieceding Letter to be

printed, at the same time, it was declar’u that they did not

design to e{poufe the Cauit of one Party in opposition to

th: other, but the cauf- of truch:and ‘herefure if any of Mr.

Hansury’s Friends weu!a fend an answer, wiitren in as

inoffemive a manner, they shou.d be ready to pubuifh ic,

— tee ——— _ a o_o

Re +.

fr, a. Se Te

The fir ft wasa Riddle upon a Pen, désigned to raise lewd

ideas in the mind.ot the Reader,; The second was called

an Ainigma,, written in the fame low. ftile with the Rid-

dics whick used to appear in OEDIC US. - And the third

was an Epigram, Riedie, or Asnigma, eccafioned by an

Epigram on Mr. J. M.S. in ‘our last Fournal. By the

Poetry and by the hand it was thought 10 come from a

THEOB ALDIAN in kis heart and head; tho’ like a false Bro-

ther he endeavours to ridicule one Mr. S. But it

being done, not only without reason, but even without

thyme (the 2 last lines ending with believing and saving)

the Society opposed the printing its being resolved to ob-

serve as itri€tly as possible the Rule laid down by the

first Great man of the name of More, That ailiCompoli-

tions offered to the Public, should be either Rhyme or

Reason. The rest which follows was ordered to be

printed,

. SIR;

I Have seen an Epitaph which, I was told, is intended

to be put upon Sir Isaac Newton's monument : it

sid not discourage me from offering this to the G:ntle-

men concerned in that affair.

Marmor hoc 2xternum ftet,

Sacrum honori magnae Britanniae,

Quae Isaacum Newionum hic fepultum

Orbi dediffe gloriatur.

Whereas in the Daily Poff and fourna/ of the 6th in-

stant, the to:low:ng Article was infcrted, * Laft Saturday

> Mr. Gittiver was served with an Intormation trom

» the King’s-bench, on account of the Grusstreet Jour-

* ual ot Thursday lat. This was a muitake, he being

served only witha Rule, requiring him to thew cauie

why an Information should not be granted; which he

wili go next Term.

On Mr. M—nes going to Law with Mr. Gilliver.

Inscrib’d to Attorney Tin BAaLop.

Once in his Life M—reE judges right:

His Sword and Pen not worth a Straw,

- An Anthor that cou’d never write,

A Gentlsman that dares not fight,

Has but one way to tcazc——by Law.

This fuic dear Fis BaLp kindly hatch;

Thus thou may tt help the sneaking EJf;

And fure a Printer 1s his Match,

W ho’s bur a Padblifher him‘eif.

Hereas F M.S. @ tall, modej}, young Man, with yel-

lowish Teeth, a fallow Cumplexion, and a flactish

Ey2 5 shaped some what like an Italtan in the Shoul.ers, Hip,

and back Parts; in mourning Apdpare , wearing a brown

tya Wig; hath absented himself j-om his Lodging in Orange

Street, and is not to be found at the Peaces he nfually fre

quented, supposed to be diyordercd 1 his Head, and to have

gone away (udde:ly, in apprebejion of falling under the

Hands of the Physican, Whoever will give Notice of the

said F. M.S. to Dr. Arbuthnot #2 Cork-Sercet, Burling-

ton- Gardens, shall receive two guineas Reward, 10 the end

that the aid unfortunate youvg Man may be brought so his

right understandiog.

POREIGN Ni: Ws.

Tuursvay, June 18.

Yesterday arrived the .:ail from France.

Petersbourg, May 25. Gen. Maraonot, who is at pre-

fent at Derbent, is appointed to go Ambaflidor to If{pahan,

to renew the former Treaties, between the Jate zar Pe-

ter I. and P. Thomas, now K. of Perna. D. Poff.

Paris, Fune 24. Don Lucas Spinola, Capt. Gen. of

the Spin'th army, fet out the 16th to return to Spain.

The azd the ‘ ard. de Fleury came to pretide in the Gen

assembly of the Clergy. The AGhons are again got up

to about 1400 livres. C.P. DP. D. F.

Rome, Fune 3. The Caidinais now most talked of for

the ’apacy are Colonna and Davia. D. F.

The Cardinals Heads of Orders have lately caused

Monk to be seized, who, preaching in one of the prin-

cipa’ Churches, assertec, that in the night berween

the 14th and tsth the City of Rome would be {wal-

owed up by an earthquake; and that this event was

toreto!d ro one of his sheepenitents in a dream. S. F. E.

Barc‘lona, Fune v1. Poiitive Orders are now come

from ‘court to forward the expedition for Italy in all

hut 3 and 42,000 men are tobe embarked in little more

thin 6 weeks, Upwards of 30,000 wen are in the

neighbour hcod; 2*,00> are to be thipp’d off here, 11,000

ar Maluga. and io.000 at Alicant. E.P. S.F. Fe

pe

i» wee -e

* fe ere = fo. Fe asi a i

Then three Copies of verses were read, ae disapprov'd.

Psi Fy it ms Yb oes “ary

a iD. bet ight grees wns

desired leave to teturn,.and:

of that Island, where the Rebels have had-the imudence

to declare, that if in 6 weeks they have not satisfaction,

they will destroy the Country with fire and {word. Ibid.

"Vienna, Junero. A fire latt sunday deftrayed the whole

Town of Ezerftorff, q leagues from hence, consisting of

about 600 houses, but the Church was faved.» Ibid. -

Amferdam, Fune 23. Some advices from Constanti«

nople import, that Sultan Efreff was arrived there, ha-

ving, with muck difficulty, escaped falling into the hands

of his enemy. Ibid. .

Fripar, une 19.

Swerin, Fune 18. N.S. D. Charles Leopold of Meck-

lembourg, our Sovereign, has, since his arrival, caused a

detachment of his Troops to diflodge ‘an Ensign, and 16

private Centinels, from their Post neat this fortress. P. _

Hambourg, Fune 16. Letters from Hanover import,

that Gen. Bulau, and the other Gen. Officers had receie

ved orders to repair thither forthwith; and that the

Troops were commanded to be ready to march on the

first warning. D. P.

Saturday, Fane 20, -

Yesterday arrived the Mail from Holland. ;

Hambourg, Fune 20. It is written from Moscow!

that May 28. being Whitsunday, the Empress of Ruf.

fia, with her own hands put upon Count Wratiflau, Ams

baflador of the Emperor, the Ensigns of the Order of

St. Andrew. C. D.P,

Granada, Fune 2. Freth orders telating to ¢ x

barkation of the Troops have been fent tate ail rer

of this kingdom, ,Ali'the transports are got ready, and

have been paid 2 months pay advance: fo chet nothing

now is wanting but ahe Marg. de Spitivla’s return to puc

that enterprize in execution. C. D P. D. F.

‘Cadiz, Fune 6. The Gaileons will tet fail the roth for

Carthagena and Porto Bello. This fleet is compef:d of

‘5 Galleons and 6 men of war. D. P.

Hague, Fune 27. N.S, The prosecution of the So«

domites here is carried on with a riyour in some fore

an{werable to the heinoufness of their crime; the guilty

beng made most terrible examples, without respect of

persons. Beside the 7 formerly mentioned, 2 have teert

burnt, and 2 publicly drowned on a {caffold at Amftere

dim. Ail the towns seem to be infeéted with this un-

natural fin. The prifous are fuli at Leyden, Deitt, Rote

terdam, here, and at Amifterdsm. In thort, ail ranks ar@

infected to that degree, that the magistrates are almost at

alofs, how to extinguish this infernal heat. P.

Monday, June 22.

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from France,

Paris, ‘uner8, N.S. Our fo'diers had ather be dod

ing mischief, than lie till as they have long done 26

Grenadiers of the Regiment ce la Marine, have eng?

20 of the Regiment Royal Allemand: 1g were killed,

and several wounded. On thearit M. Buache, the King’s

Geographer, fon-in-law to M. de Liile, was admitted a

Member of the Royal Academy ot Sciences. C &c.

Rome, Fune 8. The affairs of the Conclave are noe fag

advanced. Ibid.

_ Turspayx, June 23.

Versailles, Fune 22s This day the Hunting horses of one

of the Aldermen of London arrived here » and to mors

row he is expected himself to run down a stay with hid

Majesty; who has ordered Py Charles ef ‘orr-in to ens

tertain him. A poor woman in the parish of S, Sule

pice, as they were catrying her out ot the door to her

interment, was p'reased not to go fo quie:ly as was exe

pected: upon which, the Coffin being opened, the was

found alive, having been only in a lethargy. P.

Milan, Fune 10. The K of Spain had demanded of

the Republic of Genoa the Port of Spezza. D. P.

\WEDNESDAY, Fune 24.

Yesterday arrived the Mail trom Holland

Rome, Funero. On the 4th aman of a venerable pres

fence and aspect, hevinga long grey beard, cloath’d in »

red gown, with a cowl like that worn by Cardinals, was

carried to the prifom of the Inquisition. It is tsid he was

taken at Cracow, and brought hither at the expence of

the Inquisition; that he talks all languages, is versed in

all forts of f{ciences, and that he has foretold several

things; he is 135 years old, and calls himielt Enoch C,

On Tuesday Stocks were

South-Sea 103 7 8ths, a4, for the Opening. South

Sea Annuity 107 1 8th. Bank 142 1 4h. India t90

7 8ths, 191 thalf, Books shut. 1911 4th, a 1 half, foe

the Opening. ‘Three per Cent. Annuity 96 1 4th, for the

Opening. MilltonBankto7. Africtn 46. York Build-

ings 18. Royal Assurance (1001. paid in) 94 tor the

Opening. London ditto(13!. paidin) tar 4th. Bank

Circulation j71. 15s. South Sea Bonds 41, 183. India

L.gnora, Fune 3. Letters from Corsica import, that | ditto 5 1. 75. English Copper 31). 158, Welch ditte

Siguor Vengroio, Commillary Gen. of the Repubic, bas | il. tas,

= SS. —_ ” a

= P Pa. sittin ——s Pg 2 = OY

: a eS ee oe

give an account of the flate'

ee ee

—_ en eee

5

The Course of the Exchange.

Amsterdam 34 647 | Madrid 42 ¥ Stha:

Ditto at Sight 343 Bilboa 42 1 8th

Rotterdam 34 7 Leghoro 51 3 uths

Antwerp 35 Genoa 54 1 tialf

Hamburgh 33 1 ‘Venice 49

Parisac Sight 32 1 half Lisbon s\s.6d.38thsa1 4th

Bourdeaux at fight 32 thalf | Portoss. 5d. 3 Sths

Cadiz 42 1 halt Dublin 11

Prices of Goods at Bear Key on Monday;

per Quarter per Quarter

Wheat — 23 to 29 Hog Peas —— 14 to 16

Rye =—— 12 to 13 Roig Peis—-22 to 25

Barley [Oo to 43> Pale Malt — 13 to 19

Oas —— ‘* to 13 Brown Malt— 14 to 18 6

Horse Beans 19 to 24 Tares —-——~17 to 25

Coals.21s..to 23s. per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 — 20s, to 3:8. per Hundred.

Hops 1729 — 35s. to 608. per Hundred.

Rape Sced 13]. to 141. per Laft,

ADVERTISEMENTS.

This Day is published,

Beautifully -print! in Quarto,

HE HISTORY and ANTIQUITIES

of HARWICH and DOVER COURT,

Topographical, Dynattical and Political, Frrit colictted

by Silas Tavloy alas Doinville, Gent. Keeper of the

King’s Storesthere; and now much enlarged in all its

Parts: With Notes and Observations relating to Naural

History. [luftrated with many Copper Plates, repre-

fenting the Cliff ir selfz3 the Foffils contained therein,

and other principal things By Saniuel Dale. Printed tor

Charles Davsin Pacer. N fter-Row, and T Green over-

against the Meufe at Cisaring-Cid's,

N.B. There are some few printed on Royal Paper for

the Curious. ;

Just pudlished,

Printed'on a superfine Paper, in two Volumes in Quarto,

OME Obdfervations made in travelling through

France, Italy, Xc. in the Yeors 1720, 1721 and 1722:

Containing a large an! particuiir Account of tie moit

remarkabic A wiol ies in thufe Covotries, as well such

‘as relate to cheir Meamers, Customs, religions Orders,

C exeinon es, Sc. a8 likewise ot their Arcos Oho, Pain-

tings, Sew pture, O° other Antiqu cics, wich sre esteem-

ed mo!t worthy of the Observatior af an En clin Trave!-

ler. Vii some short Remarks on the Au, Sov, Pro-

duétiorns: Trade Manutaétiures of ) veral Places. oveafiv-

nally inter perfed. By E DWARD WRIGHT,

Efo; i] uitvated with forty curious Drawines, defied up-

on the Spot by the Author, and engra:el un Copper by

the best Hards, :

Printed for MeMieurs Ward and Wickfted in the Inner

Tempie-i-ane.

Just published,

HE LAW agant BANKRUPTS: Or a

Treat.fe wherein the Statutes against Bankrupts are

explained by feve al Cafés, Resolutions, Judgments, anc

crees, both at Conmon-Law, and in Chancery. Toge

ther with the Learning of Declarations and Pleadinz

relating thereunto. To whiciare tikewife added, Forms

and Directions tor Commissione:s, and Precedents fir for

the perufal of all Lawyeis, Merchanrs and Trarletmen.

Sic utere tuis, ut alieng non Ledas,

The fifth Edicion. To which 1s now added, An Ap-

ndix of all the Scatutes rclating to Bankruprs, to the

ear 1725 By Tho. Goodinge, Se jcantat Law. Printed

by E.and R. Nuct, and RK. Gofling, (A®izns of Edward

Sayer, Esq;) for f, Cogan, at the Middle-Temple Gate

Ficet-‘ireet.

Ju published,

HE Female PARSON: Ory, Bean in the

Sudds, An Opera, as it is a€ted at the New Theare

in the Hay-market. By Mr. Charics Coffey, Author of

the Beggar's Wedding.

Printed ‘for Fran, Cogan, at the Middle-Temple-gate in

Fleet-street, and Lawton Gillver over against St. Dun-

stan’s Church. Price one Shilling.

Where may be had,

Tie Amours of Phifario and Olinda; or, the Intrigucs

of Windsor: A peauine History. Price one Shilling. Also

An ESSAY founded on Arguments Netural and

Moral, proving the Iminortalicy of the Soul, Translated

from the Original Manufeript of the Archb:shop of Cam-

bray. Price one Shilling.

MUSICAL

a Collection of C

RICK POEMS: With the BASSES to

ach Tune, and Transposed for the FLUTE, by the

most Eminent Matters

MUSIC K’s the Cordial of a troubled Breast,

The fofteft Remedy that Grief can find ;

The gentle Spell chat charms our Cares to Rest,

And calms the ruffling Passions of the Mind.

Printed by and for J. Watts, at the Printing-Office in

Wild-court, near J.incoln-inn-ficlds, and fold oy the

Booksell:1s both of Town 2nd @outry. Of whom may be

had the BIKST ant SECOND VOLUMES,

N.B. The FLF TH and SIXTH VOLUMES,

which will finish this COLLEC TION, being in tie

Preis, and in great Forwardness, sll GEN! LEMEN

and LADIES, who are willing to contribute any

choice § ON GS, are desired to tend ‘en as soon as

possible, directed for John Watts atthe “rintine-Office in

Wild Court, near Linco!n’s-Fields, and C-:e will be taken

to have chem fet to Musick.

This Day is published,

LAS PHEMY as old as ihe Creation, or the

B Newgate Divine. A Satire. Addicfs'd to the modern

Advocates of Irreligion, Vrophanencis and Infidelity. By

a Gintleman and a Zh iftian

Quod fiin hoc era, qued animos hominum immortales

effe credam, liberter erro: Nee mihi hunc errore:n,

guo dele€tor, dum vivo, extorqueiivolo, animascTe

im mortales,--——-—-- guicguid dixit, Omnium Anima

rum Sociis W. Tindall, Tully.

Printed for Lawton Gilliver at Homer's Head in

Fleet-street.

Where my be had, jnit published,

A new Edition of the Dunciad, with some addifional

Notes and Epizrams.

A new Editon of the Art of Polt ic! s, with a cur.ous

Front {piect Rifum tencatis Amit?

Two Epittks to Mr. Pops, concern ng the Authors of

the Age. By the Author ot the Univ cai Patons

The Merchant: A Naval Ovrick. By the fame Arthor.

An Epiitie to the Earl of Chietterfield on the pictint Si-

tiation of Athais.

This Day is rn yitth’d.

N } Ty upon Poetry nd Painting, with. relation to

the Sacied and Prosano Hifiory. With an Appendix

cunce ning Obscenity in Writing and Painung. ,

Ute P ura » oefis,

Dabiturque Licentia brapta pudenter

Di'c: docendus idhue «uid cenfetamiculus:

Ur fi Cxeeus iter racnitrerzvelic,

Ry Charles Tamotte, BD D.YR.S. Mea:ber of the Sacizty

of Antiguares, and C:ap'ain to his Grace the Duke of

Mont:gue, Printed for # kavram, atthe South Fatrance

the \oy il Exchang 5 and 7, Leake, Bo o<teller at Bath.

Juit published,

HE Life of the Right Reverend Dr, White Kennett, late

Bishop of Pete boroughs with several ortsinal Let

teis of the late Arcabithop of Cancerburr, Dr. Tennison ;

the tte Earlof Sunderland: Bishop Kensce &c.anifome

cunt us original ‘apes and Records, never peture pub-

liined. And also

The Foreigner’s Guide : Or, @ neeefz.y and intiruftive

Companion, both for the Foreigner and Nutive, in their

Tour through tie Cites of London and Weitminier,

Cy ng,

rit, A general Description of thee two Cities, with an

Account of their respective Gor eriment,

adly. A Deteripiion it the Royal Palaces, Nodlcmens

Ho fes, publick Buildings, Churches, Streets, S juares,

and the most remarkable elaccs in and n ar te famous

Mictropolis : With an Account of the Inus of Court, Royal

Socery, publick Wats, Diveifions, :emarkable Day S,

Court Days, Post Jays. And, :

3d!v. A Description of the several Villages in the Neigh-

bourhood 5 as°Chelsea, Kentington, Kichmond, Gicen,

wich, Wovolwich, Hamptiead; and also othcis more r-

mote, viz. Hampton-cout, Windsor, Oxford, Cambridc.-

Blenheim, New-market Horse-races, Epiom, Tunbridge,

Bath. And, e

athly. An Account of the Kates of Coaches, Watermen ;

and also the Rates of Loft-horits; with the Roads to

Dover and Harwich,

Very ufetul and entertaining both to Foreigner and Na-

tive, and done into English and French,

Where may be had,

LOVE LETTERS on all Occasions, lately paf-

fed between Person3s of Diftinttion. Collected by Mrs,

Eliza Haywood.

Pleasure with Sorrow, Peace with War allay’d,

Liberty fetrer’d, Hope by Fear ditmay’d :

Imbitter’d Honey, Earnest mix’d wah Play,

Art, Love! the Emblem of thy fov’risn Sway,

Printed for, and fold by Francis Cogan, at the Middle-

temple-gate in Flcet-street,

‘ Just_ published.

R OP OSALS for Printing by Subscripsion .

beautiful and correct Edition of ROBERT;

SiEPH ANI Thefaurus Lingue Latine. Compared

with the bett Editions of the Claifics, the References ad.

jufied and supplied by J. MARTYN, F.R.S. ang

tne whole cor-e€ted and reviled from tie Press by

RK. KOSSEL, M.A,

The great Ufetulness of this Work having render’d ie

weaice (tho it nas passed four Impressions; that the beg

Edition is now fold for at least sixteen Younds, it is pree

{ued that the Ke-priniing of it, wih thete Improvern, nts,

will be very acceptaple ta ail the Learned in Eurype

This Work 13 to be printed trom the latt tdition

(printed ar Lyuns, containing 653 Siecets, divided into four

domes) and wili be rendered much more ufetul, by citing

not only the Books but Crapt.is of the Prose Authas

and ev.n the Lines ot the Poets; which beng adapted

co (ic imp: oved Editions of the Ciaflics, wedoubt not wil}

be 38 agreeavle to the Studious, as !aburious 0 che Lditors,

It wii ve printed in the same Manner, and on as good

Paper, a3 the Speci. en annexed co the . 1oputais.

The Price to >ubfc:ibers will be fix Gulacas a Sete in

Sheeis; only one to be paid uown, two on the Delivery

of the first Voiume Gwhich wiil contain about 170 Sheets)

and one more ter eich of the other thre Vols.

Some Copics will be printed ona lerecr Vape for the

Cu tous, ae nine Guine:s 4 Setcin Sheets: twore de paid

wow, (Wo tor the first Voiun

mo tne fill

t

> ti ‘

ae he) i i}

na two re he }

aud, ons

Ae . aS 200 a1¢ jubiuioed ior, the Work shall be

yt to rrels,

sani Tiths of the Subfe.ibers 5

VOlUuqE,

fzr'ption is closed, the Price will be rate

fed ta eight Guineas for the imall Paper, and twelve the

Ta, ié

a ¢ .

Keccipts for the Subscription-Money are signed by all

thic Propii (COIS, wit cl they will psy into the rans of

Powe Chad, Fry, Alderman, and return it to the Sudferi-

bers Ly Chrifaas next, M there is not luinc.cnt Encomagee

ment fo progecst.

ae.

bile AVG

A

Geral en .e}y

Abe > 4 tai

When the Su!

Subscriptions ore taken 1 Tors: and % Bete

- , rr x - y 9 y? a

i t t ¥ ‘ f ‘ ‘; , ‘-. ie 4 he 4 ? e t 7 ict f

} XLS tlead, aoveci asainit t ic INeur ¢ yin GU. of 2

F. (ovan, at the Mid tle-Temple-Gate, Fleet-S icci : . by

the a’rintcrs, S. Paluer and J. Heegonfon, in Bartholomex-

Close,

This Day is pubhfhed,

(Puce Four Pence,

A. General Hifiory ef Exccu.iens, Namb. IV.

(To be continued.)

Or.aining 2n Account of the lives and Actions of

the two toilowing Malctattors ex cuted at Tyburn

tue firit Infant, viz, John Doyle, a fucee'stul Highway-

man, and Join Young, a bacba:ous Ko.b:. Alto of ax

Malefaétur cy d and eondeinu'a atthe Lent Afnzes, beiore

the date Lord Chit Baron Pengelly, aid Mi. Justice For-

te:uc Al nj, and exccuied at Heavytree Callowa near

F-reter, two of them proiefting thew Innecence to the lait.

Prirs d by Ro Newton, at St. Jol.n’s-Cate, and fold

by th: Bookt: eis in Town ond Country.

Where may be hadg Price 4d each.

Numb. 1. cuntuining the Lite of Everett, a noted High-

Wa} lan, of Goodourn, a Poet, and of two other Maic-

fa€tors executed at the same Time,

Num. LH. comvtining aa Account of five Mal_f€tors,

and a Detription ot a iarge Gang of Thicves and Cheats,

which inte‘t at Times all parts of the Kinedoxny of great

Uf2 to Otkcers of Variihes, and private Persons, tor guards

ng against and detétine the fad Rogues.

Numb. ff. Containing an ample Relition of the noted

Villain James Dalton, and of his Robburics for 20 years.

Of Hagit Houghton the Br.ftcol Mail Koboer 5 and thice

overs p :

Note, This Work meeting with Esconragement will

‘be continued every Sessions, and the Numbas regularly

pudlithed toon afer the Execution, and will contain aa

Account of the Crminals executed and transported

throughout England, in order to make a compleat Vo-

lume at the Year's -End, when a general Index will be

given for that Purpose,

BOOKS printed and field by Jo'n Brotherton at the

Bite in Coinhill.

Life of Oliver Cromiwel,8vo. | Gordon’s Geog. Grammar.

ee Nove.s, 12mo. wae’ Ditiienary in to,

6 Vol, Or 5yvO.

D’Ano's Tales of the Fairics, | Blais’s Sermous, 5 Vol. 8vo.

3 Vol. 120, Shakefper'’s Plays.

Free Thoughts on Religion. | Addison s Works, 4 Vol.

Pilgrim’s Progrets in S8vo, | Lockyer’s Tradeto India

with Cuts, 2 Vol. Abelard’s Letters

Spettators, § Vol. Garth’s Ovid, 2 Vol

Prideaux Conn-étion, 4 Vol. | Plutarch s Lives, 8 Vol.

Musical Miic 4 Vo'e 8-0. Don Quixo;, 4 Vol,

The Dancing Master, oy Mr. j Guardians, 2 Vol.

Folin FJex, 400. Ov'<’s Eriftles

Boyer’s ‘Teiemeciins, 12mo. | Dryden’s Virgil.

Gay’s Fables, 8vo. |

we ‘—o= - O68 ee eee,

ee ee ee

LONDON: Printed for Capt. Guliiver and F. Cogan near the Temple, Mr. Fack/on in Pail Mall, and James Brotherton near the Exchange, and Sald by F. Robert,

in Worwick-Lane, where Letters and Advertisements, ec. are taken in.

[Price Two Pence. |

