The Grub-street Journal.

Thursday, JUNE 11. 1730.

_ |

For fave or flay, this privilege we claim,

Tho’ credit suffers, the reward’s the fame.

Difpenfary, Cant. IV.

The following Letter was written by a reverend Divine

" ¢o a Lady, giving an account of the imaginary, legal

murder of her husband in a medicinal and chirurgi-

cal way.

Dear were

eouigeea F TER having fo long both heard, and

meee ees) thought, and said fo much good of you, it

' vay is with vast concern that | find the world,

ig

yerarayo) since I came hither, fo buly, both in pri-

Ji’ 2G se! vate discourse, and in the pubiic Papers, with

your repucation, as tho? you were married,

or designed to marry a Person, whose name I am afha-

med should blot this Paper; and much more the me-

mory of my dear deceased Friend, and the noble family

you are descended from. For my part, as I am perfectly

acquainted with the gondness of your heart, as well as

of your understanding, I neither have, nor ever will be-

Jieve such improbable accounts of your conduct, fo dif-

ferent from that of your whole life, which has been one

continued {cene of virtue and piudence. But however,

as the wisest and best of Women may, through passion,

or inadvertency, be led into fatal mittakes, I think it is

my duty, with the utmost deference and regard, to lay

some things befcre you, which wil prevent your taking

fo terrible a step, if your own good sense and virtue have

not, contrary to the malicious reports of the world, fuf-

ficiently secured yeu already.

I shall not touch upon those common topicks of eves

ry talker on the subject, the birth, education, the under-

standing, the charaéter, or persons of that Creature. Your

Ladyship is a perfect judge of them all; and 1 hope (as

Tever will) hold them in that utter contempt the world

(I meanthe fenfible world) has placed them in. What 1

have to urge to you, Dear —~—~is of a higher nature,

which is, that 1 have the most violent suspicious cir-

cumstances and arguments to prove him guilty of mur-

dering my dear deceased Friend. As I attended my poor

unfortunate Relation in all his fickness, I observed and

took notice how he was managed by him, tho’ I

thought not fit, nor indeed was able propeily to make it

maniteft to you, or to the world, till now. From those

notes and observations, I can, and will prove on my oath

before God and Man, belides several other material par-

ticulars, not fit to mention as yet, that the Murderer

gave him several plaifters for his left foot, which by their

colour and consistence, I do believe, contained a mercu-

rial preparation. Whence in all humane probability, his

fir complaint and lameness procecded. ‘That these Pia-

fters probably occasioned his strangury, which gave the

mifcreant an opportunity of fending him that fatal mix-

ture, which he told your was only the cold

feeds; which, in a!l likeliheod, hastened on him that diz-

zinc{fs and bleeding at the nofe in the House of Com-

mons, which succeeded his lameness. Upon which he

bled him largely, having persuaded his Phjficians his

disorder was apopleétical. And that night having anointed

kim with some ointment of hisown; he gave him pills,

which, upon my oath, from several Circumstances in his

disorder, I believe were opium. That he put into

your — hands another dofe (under pretence the

Doétor had ordered them for him) which you unfortu-

nately gave him the next morning ; and which you af-

fured me your £lf, you could hardly wake him so far

(he was fo stupidly and fo fenfeleily afleep) as to get

them taken, to your great surprize. That farther; when

I saw my dear Friend at gof the clock, I saw him with

his eyes fixed in his head, and just in sucha stupid drunk-

a

rN

& 2:

en way, as one largely dozed with opium would be,

That when he came to himself, he and your

give me these accounts, ‘That farther, notwithstanding

it was evident, that vomits were the necessaricft and fit-

te expedients; and it proper vomits were faithtfully

given, they must have worked; yet could he get no-

thing off his ftomac, to the increase of my surprize and

jeaicufy. That at last Physic being ordered, such was

admioifter’d, or in such quantities, that it ftirred him

very little. And when my poor Friend complained, he

had agreat beat anddrought on him, which is the certain

consequence of Opium, 1 faw the Murderer give him a

draught of cold water, which he drank off. And when

I cried, Good God! will you stop his Physic’s work-

ing, and destroy him? he made light of it, and notwith-

standing what I said, gave him two gi:ffes more, only

mixed with a littte claret ; which is the very way the

Turks and the Perfians ufe, when they take Opium to

kill themselves, always taking water with it, to end

themselves the easier and sooner. That along with all

this to secure every thing takiog effect, he was bled

most severely at different times, enough to have killed

such a man ; tho’ he earnestly begged against it, and tho’

I assured his Physicians (whom this mifcreant alarmed

with the fears of an apoplex) that bleeding was what he

never could bear without finking under it, and that now it

would destroy him, without any other disorder, That

between these operations my poor dear Friend walked

frequently about the room, leaning on my hand, and tell-

ing me, and some times all the company, that it amazed

him what ailed him, That his head, his reason, his mind,

and body were as undifturbed as ever in all his life; ex-

cept that strange drowliness which he could not account

for, to the aftonishment of all that heard him, That

farther, when the Physicians consulted on him, and I

would tain have been by (which was but reasonabie) the

Murderer expressy bid me go away, and turned me out

of the room; tho’ he head told me from the first mo-

ment of his illness, that he would certainly dye. Thet

notwithstanding all his management, glifters being orderea

by the Doétors, who faw them given, my dear Friend began

to purge downwards, and giow better, to that degree

that I ran with joy to your with the good news,

that he purged between his dozings. That no fooner

was the Doétor gone but the Aflaffin put a glifter on

the fire, where he held it fo long, that, upon my oath,

I believe it was almost {calding ; which all the wor'd

knows, stops all Physic from working. The reason ot

my believing it was fcalding is, that weak and {pent as

he was with the lofs of such quantities of blood, and fo

many blifters on every part almost about him, (which

yet could never raise his blood, it being drained off) yet

I saw the very instant he received it, he few out of

the bed, and ran naked about the room, to every one’

surprize, crying out with thit torment these terribe

words, ‘Good God! Good God! can’: you let a mifer-

‘ able wretch dye in peace? At which words I jaw,

upon my oath, the villain turn away his head, and burh

out into laughter, Nay, to crown all, as if enough had

not been done, as if it were to {ce if any blood was lett

in his body; this merciless Affaflin bled him, fiult in

one of the jugular veins; and when he could get no

more, he bled him in the other, till that stopped tov,

and put an end to his life and misery.

I have omitted many important things besides, which

tho’ probably the law will not consider, when it comes

to be tried, as proofs sufficient to reach the Murderer’s

lite, yet, I am confident, will prevent you, dear Madam,

from entering into any of the least correspondence with

him, much less into one for lite, To ths good end I

lay all this before you, and beseech your affiitance, with

Lord » and your joining in petition to che King,

to have this dismal villany searched into, and tried with

the utmost severity. And farther, that innocent blood

may not be unpunished, or, at least, if blood cannot atone

for blood, that infamy and difprace, and the curses and

detestation of Mankind, may puriue this Affaflin through

the earth. My only concern is, dear Madam, least the

malice of the wold should, tho’ ever fo causeleily and

unjustly, fall on you, as joining in a connivance at his

crime. This gives mevatt uneaiiness indeed. Andabove

all, if through his flatterry or artifices, he should have

so far de'uded your goodness. and biinded your judg-

ment, as to hive had you consented, or actually enter-

ed into unavoidable engagements of marrying him.

I therefore earnestly beseech your to lay the

truth of the matter nakedly and truly before me. For

rather than I would contribute to afperie and de

tame that goodne(s, virtue, and obliging kindnels, which

1 have fo long a’mired, and been fo much obliged to,

I wou'd rather suffer the greatest troub.e the concealing

what 1 have to fay can give. 1 moti solemnly aver to

you, I never have, nor by God’s bkctling will, commu-

nicate this matter to any, tor two or three days, till

. tient might feel upon the app ication.

_ |

I have your deliberate anfwor and advice in it; having

the most inviolable tenderness and regard for you. At the

fame time I must beg, dear Madam, the fame openness

ef mind, in what you have to fay to meon this; and

for my future conduct in it, your hoppine{s and fafer

tha'l be my first great care ; and that cured, 1 will leave the

rest to God and you. I impatiently wait your answer

accordingly ; and am, with all re{peét and honour, and

a heart deeply grieved for all your troubles, as weil as

my own vaftt lofs, dear

Most affectionate obliged humble servant.

This Letter being read, 2 debate arose, whether it

should be printed. The Gentlemen of the faculty in ge-

neral opposed it, as giving an odious representation of

their proteffion, without any just foundation, They (aid

it was impoflible to judge of medicines, &c. by theit

colour ; and of the heat of a giifter by the pain a Pa-

} That it was im-

pertinent for a Divine to prie into the mysteries of Phy-

fic, since thev seldom or never concerned them{=lveg

with those of Divinity. And that they knew no buli-

nels a Clergymaa had with a sick person, but only to

prepare him for aaorher world, when the Physician

had conducted him to the ist tage of this.

Dr. T objected against the impeifect manner

in which this cuf> was represented, and said that abun-

dance of material ciicumstances had been omitted, as

particularly, the Gentleman’s name and age, the time and

place of his marriage, the borough which he represented,

the day of the month aud week when first taken, the

{treet in which he lived, and forty more particulars of

like nature, as necessary to form a true ju ginent in cafes

of Phytic, as in tlote of Law.

To all this ic was answered, that the malice. imperti-

nence, or weakne{s which might appear in this Le:ter,

was rather an argument for the publication of it. That

weak objections against | ersons or things tended to the

advantage of that which they oppoftd. Thit as chis

piece had been handed about in a private manner, which

had raised an opinion in those who had not seen ir,

that it contained some thing extraordinary ; the belt way

would be to give chem an opportunity of fecing it, and

judging impartially: aad that probably chis tragicai hifto-

ry oighr h ve the fame fortune which other Tragedies

have often had; to have been much talked of before they

were published, but to have beca found upon reading

to have norhing at ail in them. Upon this, a contide-

able majority appeared tor the publication.

Tue following Ballad was fent from Dublin, with a

surprifing article of News. There is one witful mistake

runs through the whole, in calling the Dean The true Eng

lifh Dean: for tho’ he may be a traceLorm Evghi]-man,

he is certainly a true Ini) Dears who has thus emulated

the fame ot a Scofe) Colored. and in ail probabiliry he

will ri above him ; being celebrated by a much bets

ter Poec than any of the Epiftolary Bards who aung the

other.

An excellent new Ballad: Or, The true En———fh Don

to be hang’d for a R-pe.

5.

UR Brethren of E——nd who love us fo dear,

And in all they do tor us fo kindly do mean;

(A blessing upon them) have fent us this year,

For the good of our Church, a true E-——fh Dn;

A holier Priest ne’er was wrapt up in Crape:

The worst you can fay, he committed a R-pe.

Il.

In his Journey to D-bl-n he liyhted at Ch-ft-r,

And there he grew fond of another man’s Wife:

Burst into her chamber, and would have Careis’d ber3

but fhe vaiue her honour much more than her lite.

She buitied, and ftrugyled, and made her escape

Toa rooin tull of Gucits, tor fear of a R-pe.

lil.

The D—n he pursued to recover his Game,

And now to attack her apain he prepares :

But the Company stood in detence of the Dame;

They cudge..’d,and cufrhim, and k'ck’d him down flairs :

His D—nthip was now in a dimmnable tcrape y

And this was no time for committing aK-pe.

3

»

amet” to

—

SE pO es etme

aetna

*

wy

3

To D-bi.n he comes, to the Bagniohe gees ;

And orders the Landlord to bring him a Whore:

No {crupie came on him, his gown to expose ;

’Twas what all his lite he had practis’d before:

He made himielf drunk with the juice ot the Grape;

And got a good Clap, but commitred no R-pe.

V.

The D—n, and his Lendlord, a jolly Comrade,

Refoiv’d for a fortnight to {wim in delight;

For why? they had both been brought up to the trade

Of drinking all day, and whoring al night.

My Landiord was rea¢y his D—nship to ape,

In ev'ry debauch, but committing a K-pe.

VI.

This Protestant Zealot, this E fh Divine,

In Church asd in State was of Principles found:

Was truer than Steele to the H—n—r Linr;

’ And griev'’d that a Tory thouid live above Ground.

Shall a subje& fo loyal be hang’d by the Nape,

For no other Crime but committing a R—p?

Vil.

By old Popish Canons, as wife men have penn’d’em,

Fach Vrieft had a Concubine, jure Ecc: fia.

For who would have l’-—rns without a Commendim ?

And Precedents we can produce, if it please ye.

hen why shou’d the D--n, whenwhores aie do cheap,

Be put to the peril and toil of a R-pe ?

VIII.

If fortune shou’d please to take such a Crotchet,

(To thee l apply, great Sm—y’s fuccetfor,)

To give thee Lawn_-sleeves, a Mitre, and Re chet 3

~ Whom wou’dlt thoy refembe ? Ileav> thee a gueffer.

* But Lonly behoid chee in Ath ston’s ‘hape,

For Sodomy harg’d, as thou ‘cra R-pe.

IX.

Ah! doft not thou envy the brave Col. Ch———s,

Condemn’d tor thy Crime at threescore and ten?

To hang whoin ail En

Garters ;

Yet helives, and is ready to ravifh again.

Then throttic thy feit with a yard of strong tape :

For thou haft not a Groat t’atone fora R pe.

X

The D—n he wasvext, that his whores were fo willing ;

He long’d for a Giri that would ftrugele and {quail.

Heravith’d her fairly, and fav’d a good ihiling:

But here was to pay the Devil and all.

His troubles and sorrows now come in a hesp;

And hang’d he mutt be tor commuting a L-pe.

XI.

If maidens are ravith’e, it is their own choice;

Why are they fo wilital to ftrugele with men?

If they would but lie fill, and flitle their voice;

No Devil, nor D—n could ravith ‘em then.

Nor would there be need of afiroay hempen Cape,

Ty’d round the D—n’s neck, tor committiey alt-pe.

XII,

Our Church and our State dear E——nd maintains;

For which ail true Protestant hearts should be glad :

She fends us our B——ps, our Jud—s and D—ns,

And better wou’d give us, if better fle had.

But Lord! how the Rabbie will stare, and will gape!

When the good En——fb | —-nis hang’d up tora R pe.

LONDON.

THnurspay, Fue 4.

Laft night the cor pie of Doyle was interred in a vault

at S. Scpuichres. Poff Boy. A great deal of wine was

given at his funeral, and a valt mob followed. Cour.

A Certiorari was ycefterday granted by the Court of

King’s Bench, to remove the {pecial verciict (now fettled)

against Mr. Huggins, into that Court; and lkewile a

Hac as corpus to bring hinnup thither. Daily Poi, A Cer=

tiorari to remove the Kecord ot the Proceedings. D. Four.

The L. B. of London ended his visitation of the Lon-

don Clergy last far. at S. Paul's. 1énd.

Yesterday 2 men fighting on bish-fircet bill, one be-

ing thrown dowa, a coach ran over him, and killed

him. Pojt Boy.

In Bishopigate- street, a chaife ran over a {ervant maid,

having a chid in her arms, killed the child, and brutted

the maid fo much, that her lic is despaired of. Térd.

Dr. Jabez Ear) was chosen 1 of the6 Preachers of the

Merchants !e€ture at Salters-hall. D. Journ.

There is building at Richmond, and a'most finithed,

a fmal!, but very neat and regular Theatre, a lite higher on

the hil] chan that webere the late Mr. Penkethmian’s stood. 14,

' The Officers of the Regiments at Gibraltar and Mi-

morca, who are absent from their Pofts, are ordered to

repair to them forthwith. J0id,

———_

nd would lend him their.

Laft week Dr. Bradley, Professor of Botany in the U-

niverfity of Camb. was to view the new Pot-houte at

Black-wail, near Stepney ; where he found an extraor-

dinary clay for Garden-pots, for the preservation and

health of plants; and has fettled the several proportions

requisite from the fmalieft herb to the ‘argest o: ange-tree,

and beipoke on his own account a large aumber to be

fent to Cambridge. Daily Post I hope thr: learned

Professor will proceed to view the r-fi of she Vot-hout s,

and likewise the Glafs-houses, which he has voz yet views

From wher ce we may jufily expre? gral improv. ments in

Pots and Bottles ; afubjed, which if he once take in band,

he will not fril to exhautt.

Sar. last Harris, E{g: was married to Miss Her-

bert, fitter to Hen. Arch. Herbert, Eq; Even Pol

Oa tucfi. Tho. Vaux, Eig; to Mils Atkins, an hereds

of rcooo |, Ibid, ;

And this morning Edw. Stanley, Vig; to Miss Ware,

D. to Mr. Ward, an eminent Book i Jles, @ Lady ot acon-

fiderable fortune. Lewd. Even. Abcur 16 a Lavy of great

merit, beauty, and fortune, St fames’sEven,

And likewise Mr. Jof. Fifter to Mirs. Kenley, D. to

Mr. Kenfey, an eminent Surgeon, @ Ledy 0! Goose 4.

fortune. Lond, Even.

chosen at Richmond in Yorkshire. Even Post

lis RH. the Priace has eppo'nted Jon Rafe, § iq

to be Steward ot the Hundred Courts in Coroswel’. Lan

Yesterday the L. C.J. Reymond Le. .b Keyuows

and Mr. J Price, aflitted the L. Chincecor i ay

cause, betwixt Chester, Efg; Plasnt. aud Sir jo On

Chester, Bar Def. for an cfate of 1100'. perrn. and

was decreed in favour of the Defendant. S$ fames’s Ex

On mond. Mrs. Lavinia Befwiek, commony Calle

Miss Fenton, wes brought to bed of a 2dion Tétd.

Col. Chartses was aicfted im “leet street, at the iui

of a Runner at Newgate, for 501, tor firvices pret nde.

to be done during his coufincmenr in Nevwe-te. [bid

Wedn. Marg. Worl.nd wascommitred to Newgate on

rt EM. P.f?.

A ty per way for a loyal husband to get rid

£

? rebellious we C.

Tueld. 2 Caitcss quarreling about the way in Led:

gate street, wen’ toboxing :ome Was knocks. cown at the

fifi blow, and his owa cart moving forward went o +r

his head, and killed him on the ipot. Even. Poff I fup

te’? the Houyhubms, wh ce drew the ert, took this opjor-

tunity of revenge for kestilufage, an Lbope it will t acu

his brethren more humanity to-vards them.

Sa. even. Mrs. Moor, Wid Rofley, of Coulftone,

and Mr. Canfton’s Daugh. of Croydon. about £3; years od,

were overturned en Rickleidown, :n a tilted cart loaded

with poods, and were all fmoihered to death. Mis.

’sion drove the cart. Mrs. Roffey has lett 3 chi-

dren. St. fames’s Even,

Tucfd, Mr. Smeakam, a Quaker in Horflydown Fair-

fret, Tallow-chandier, drownes himie.¢ at a wharf near

Dancing-bridge. He wes about .7, and ina vey likely

way to thrive in the wor'd. Even. Poff. ana Wasrekel!

Even.——I_ am well iwformed, that Srioskam was too

great a lover of a pipe, exc. to thrive inthe worit, ard

that be had more Spirit ran to ccown himtef ; d #9 (ven

recling in the firceet, as sf the inward min was very we’,

about an hour éefave the ourward accidentaly beerme jc.

FRIDAY, Sune §.

Yesterday the Commissioners ot the Navy rece'ved

proposa's for hiring Ships for ‘ransporting folaers to Gi-

braltarand Port Mahon. Daily Journ. ‘Tookup 1¢ 5h ps

measuring about 3000 tons, Courant. Contracicd for

r8ooton, Po? Boy.

The total ot the Guards, and the 3 marching Regi-

ments of Kink, Ker, and Tyrawiey, deigned tor Don

Carlos’s expedition, contift of 3332 men. Courant.

Wedn. Abr. Jett, Efa; was marricd to M.fs Anne So-

hia Allanfon, an heirefs of 12,ccotortune. Poff Poy.

on

a9

iviODOl

—_

The R. PH. Lord Lynn, is appointed L,. Lieutenant of

Nortolk, inthe room ot bis Father; and likewiie Mailter

of the Jewelotfice. Jéid.

From Antiua there isadvice, that their crop of sugar

this season was extraordinary good. D. Pef?.

Mr. Charie!worth, who wa: on wedn. surrendered by

his bail, was the fame day fent tothe Pieet. [did.

The Rev. Mr. Warnford was choien Leciurer yefer-

day of S. Michacl’s Cornhill, by baloting. Jaid.

Wedn. at Guidhal a cause was tried betwixe Me&.

Olivert and Andrea, Plaint. and Sam. Floyes alias S. Le-

gar, Def in wivchit appeared, that the Defendant be-

ing one hat owner of the Good Providence Sloop, to-

gether with Rob. Halfey, in a voyaze from Sicily with

a lading of wheat, contigned to the Painnffs at Lisbon,

put into Cagliary, tod the wheat, and received the mo-

ney for it: the cargo being valued at 6001. the Jury

ae = :

Laft weck Sir Conyers D’Arcy was unzuimously r-

the oath of her bustand, for curling their Majestics.

brought in averditt fot the Plain:iffs for the said fum. D. ¥,

SatTurvDay, June S.

From Scotland they tell us, that the Rev, Mr. Tho,

Ray. a Minister of the Kirk, has been fined by the ve.

nerable Assembly, for the detestable fin of powdering his

wigy ona fundiy. Fog s Fournal, —— The cme, I fupe

pofey wasSabbathebroatiry an performicg the Barser’s, in-

flead of the Presbyter’s cite, upon tnat day,

The t<,0001. granted by Parliament for the balf-pay

officers Wicows, toa’ can prove ther marriages before

+716, is now under fettiero.nt at the War office Ibid.

We hear that the great South-Sea Shp, lately built,

which now lies atc Wooiwich, wil. not be dent a: yet to

the Scuth-Seas : but whether it 1s becau‘e hee burthen is

vaftly above the Covtrad, or that fli< is made too fine

to be expoted so far in the Seas, we fhsi not fay. Craft--man,

Jutt pudiithed, a Print of a very handfume draught,

n-efenced to the KR. H. Sir Ropekt WALPOLE, cu-

r fly engraved by M:. Fourdrinier, and highly approved

of by the .ngenious and learned, for its emblems and de.

vices. Lbta Upon reausg thts Advertisement, J boughe

pee Pint and pref ted st to my lettie Grand-fon Jerrry;

who | by the war) wa. dor onthe 10th of sh imonth, about

y at itght, ard wl be chev iuft 9 years old, but for poli-

tiwcal reafoas I keep his buéto day on the with. He was

much delighted with the present, and admir'd the emblems

iid devices; and, what pleased mem? soob porticular

notice of the © latin verses at the vorto4: the 2 lak of

which (in all good epigranas the befi) rive tris

Tavidus improperet. firideat, vel o.rrist amens-

Hunc gui tants patret docta M nerva revit

On which occasion bo be farsi he was clad to find thrt io rte

Avat common; had ben lately whizp’s at for m+

king wt shot, and not remembcrisg fkrideo, ftrici, im As

1+ prxienti.

Lait thufd. his Majesty was pleased to appoint Will,

Lee, ios Attorney Gen, tothe P. of Wales, &c. to fue.

ceed the present L. C. J. Reynoids, 2s a Judge ot the

Court ot the K, Bench. Pof By. Of what Court, wre

hear, ts rot yet fetid. D Sourral,

Orders arc dent to Depties d and Woolwich, to get ia

readin A; with all expedition, 2 Bomb-vessels thot are build-

vy there, ard wil soon be launched. Paff coy.

Yesterday as thel:bourcrs were digs my inthe founda-

tion of the © lcifer’sof S. Barthe.ctiew’s Hospiral, they

found upwards of ico silver Aiclais in box the ate}

of K. Henry f. the fuun’e: of that Hospital atove ooo

years ag0.16id, A co .tiderable quantity of silver-moncy.

In pieces about the tize of Shiiungs and Six-pences, of

the coin of Edward VI. the Inscripnons, the’ of suchan

ancient date, are very fair and legble. DD. Le/?

We hear that Capt. Shirley, Biether to the E. Ferreve,

and Capt. Reynolds, Son to the L. bifhap of Linceon,

(which last Gentleman was latcly broke by orcer ot his

Majefv upoa the report of a Court-martcal) are hoth gone

into holy orders. Ibid. ——-Daare, Wr ther these Ger tle

meiy by changing the coiour of ter Coats eral: to be men

of courage and honour; of which (1m tie opinion of the

Gentlemen of the Sword) the Black-ccats have cery litzle.

Tueid. the King’s Pate at Sa.scury of 100 wuinears was

run for by 3 horses, and won by Mr. Sh prerd’s Vera's Id.

Sit. Sir Fran. Vyvyan, Bar. was marred at Mawyan,

ia Cornwall, to Mits tloblyn, a beautitul yeuny Lady

of agood fortune. did.

Mon. died at Saisbury, in the rath year of his cge,

Sir Nich. Crifp, Gar. and is fucceeced in title by his Un-

cle, Char. Crifo, of Dorneford, in Cxfordth. Esq; li’.

Hea. Rolle, | fg; hasbeen unanimouds cleéted a Repre-

{sntative for Devonshire, in the room or is Father. D.F.

Thu:fd. 2 young men wafing themieives in the

Thames, near Mill-bank, Weftm. a Weft-country bose

coming by, 1 of them dived under it, and never rofe

atrermaids. Even. Poj?.

This cay at moon If Broderick food in the Piilory at

Charing-crois for attempting to commit Sodomy. St.

James's Even. Ve was tevercly po'ted ov the Mob, fe-

veral women amongst them shewing their refencment by

throwing eggs and dirt at him. Exen. Post.

Co]. Chartres ha. ing petitioned his Maje@y for leave

to bring a Wnt of Error to reverde the Judgment latey

given against him. his cate hos been reterrea to the Ate

tornes and Solicitor Gen. who are to make their repors

next week, Lond. Eve.

This morn, Mr. Rob Griffith, a noted Blackfinith in

PaleMalt, was tound heap’d in his own Werk cellar. I4/d.

fie was in good Circumstances, but was app. chentive he

shoud come to want, whica was the occasion ot bis

untimey enc. St. Fomces’s Ever. — —I am i formed,

that the cccation of st was prefert want of a beasmsifus

Sem pfirefs of 50, he himplf beinz above bo, ;

They have began to pul Tapeftry hangings

!

Gown tae

7 hea : . : eet im - See

ta the Painted Chambder, and co clear the gardens behing

Ae

:

J

st, to frame the work of the new Building St. Fama:ss Ev.

‘They write from Weit-Afhon ia Wilts, thac a vio.cnt

distemper rages thereabouts, which has carried off great

numbers in less thin 24 hours; and that 4 or 5§ persons

lye frequently dead in one family. dtd.

Monpay, Fune8.

W. Wrightfon, Eig, 4th Cerk in the Pipe-office, is ap-

pointed od Cie. k; od W. Tully, Esq; is appointed 4th. P. B.

Sat. died in White-fryers the Rev. Mr. Ch yn y, oi

Oxtord, who hada estate of < or 600]. perarn. D. Po.

Sat. John Shefhe!d was committed to New pate, on

the oath of John Waller, for robbing hum on the Hezh

way of :1 guineas, &c. Jamies Daiton «vas convicied

upon Waller's evidence; and 4 other persons were com-

mitted to Newyate on his o th tce rob ing him; the

bil's against 2 ot whom were returned iznoramus, and

the other 2 were tried and acquites. 141.

A few days since fevera! Persons cf quality went to

Mr. Whitm:i!’s garden at IT xron, to ice the forward

grapes, peaches, plumbs, rafpberres, &c. which he has

had ripe 2 months, and are allowed to be as wel! flee

youred as the fame forts would be in France ia the na-

turai season: fo that the torcins walls recommended by

Dr. Bradley, were ordered by several of the noble Pei-

fonages to be erected in their grcens. Jdid.

Frid. one Mrs, King, a tin=e woman, came to the

houf= of Mrs. Jumper in Vhread-nesd'e-Arect, and com.

pliinag that her head ached, went to le “own on the

maid’s bed. Abou: g fhe got out cn the top of the

house, and jumpt off, and died on the ipot. D. fourn—-

Mr. Conundrum ts of opsnio7 that hive 1s a mistake; and

that it was Mrs. Jumper who cme sto Mrs. King’s hone.

Sat. at the Court of K. Bench James Cox and Tho.

Charletworth were found guilty of torging and pub ishing

a faife and counterfeit Letter of Attorney, in the name ot

Mary Rad Wsfon, to acknowledge firistaétion upon a re-

cord of judgment, and for executing the fame. D, Fours.

Tuespay, ‘June 9.

Yesterday the 3 Regiments of Foot guards p2ffed in

review before his Majesty in Hyde-pirk; and perform’d

their exercises in @ mo compieat and expe: t manner.

Daily Poff, They were under arms by 4 in the morn-

ing ; and about 10 their Majesties, with the rest of the

Royal Family, came from Richmond, D “Journ,

Yesterday morn. the D. of Norfoik fet out of Towa

for Dover, in his way to France. D, Po/t.

Mr. Edw, Godtrey, an eminent Urewer, was mar-

ried on thurid. Jaitto Mrs Mary Harris, aLadyotf 10000),

fortune. Daily Ffournal.

Aprnct hes veen la'd before his Majesty, for encamp-

ing ail th forces in Great-Britain, for the care of cities

and corp.:ate Towns &c. Sr. Fames’s Even. 3 camps

to be formed for the cafe of Cities &c. Lovdon Even.

WEDNESDAY, Fune ic.

Yesterday they bevan to vi“tual the transports that

were t2k-n up on Thursday last at the Navy-Office, for

taking on Board the Land Forces design’d tor the Expe-

dition of Don Carlos into Italy. D Pf.

Dublin, May 30, Wedn. | ft Mr. Dan. Kimberly wa

execu’ed at Srephen’s Green 3 Clergymen attended

him, to one of whom he delivered several Papers. As

the cart was drawing trom him, he pot hold of the

rope with both his hands; but heing obiiged to quit his

hold, he cried out, Te Lord Fefis receive my foul.

N. 8. He was entrusted by “iits Keading’s Father to car-

ty her to England. Post Boy.

Hilsborough, May, 20. Tuefd. the roth. there was a

Prodigious ligh ving, thunder, rain, and hail A lirge

bal of fire, —f2t the cabbin of Will. Coburn on fire

tore up trees by the roots, overfetting hedges and ditches,

tore a house to pieces, and carried one of the beams

half a mile through the air, and darted it into the earth

near 2 foot deep, ——— threw our three flaflies with pro-

digtous no fe. and aimo%t suffocated people with the

ftench of sulphur and p.unged fevera! times in the

river Lagan, throwing the water a great height, where

Itis tupposed it was quenched. Cour, Tiss Story,

4sI am told, Father W n afird 12 a Coffce-

house, implied Abfuraitics, Improdabiacies, and Incredibi-

lities, if taken Uiccrally; but according to its mystical

Meaning. tt aptly pointed out to xs, a certain red-hot Irith

D—n, who now marvesagrest ml. He there explained

the Alegory at large; and shewed how exact'y the Letter

and the Spirit rallted. Hid I room en this place, it is net

confitent with my gravity to vepiat all that he [aid on this

orexfion, however, I (hal! give a short specimen. He a

fired his oudience to observe the tart cular force of the words

fed in this narraticn. lightaing, thunder, rain, hail, and

bal of fire; rhe three flafhes, noiie, and tench; the ba!)s

Plus ging deveral times in the river, where it was at last

quenched, The overfetting ditches, ke fud, was wmpo/fi-

hfe 10 a literal fente; but taken figuratively the exprejion

Sr ay

peas

=

_—s

P

q

| was very elegant; the wisest of men bavinz calleda whore

adecp ditca, whom all men muff own very apt to be

ove it. Several Gentlemen of our Society being present,

wo have 0tlig’h the Town with Epilties, Satires, Tran-

flitions, Ba iad Opera’s, ‘Tragical Comedies, Comical

Tragedies; ¢rc. much admired his Ditcourfes, and highly

atplemled bis penetration, wit, and learning. :

Juve x. Tuefd. 19, there Wasa great thander and hail,

which begin about Tondragee, ge. The hail was of an

uncummon fhape in long and rough stones, and tore up

ali the cabbage Plants; and on fitday the 22d, they lay

a foot deep ia feweral places. _ Cour.

It is not certain from the words of this Irish Author,

wivether the Hail-stones or the Cabbage plants lay a foot

ceep: I am inclined to think it was the Latter.

‘his mora, Dr. Tho. Sawbridge, Dean of Ferns, was

arraigned, for forcibly and feloniously ravishing one Suf.

Kuncard in this City last April, and committed prisoner

to the custody of the Sheiiffls. Loud. Evening Po/,

From the Pegi fus in Grub fireet.

Northampton, Furey. Yesterday began the Poll for

Koights of this Shire, becwcen Sir Justinian Ifiam Bar.and

John Hanbury, Efg; at the closing of the books, the fur-

mr had a Majority of 32. The Pol! will be continued

this Day and To-morrow, unless the latter should give

it up before; for it is generally thought he will be very

much out-polled to Day: L. St Joha’s, Mr. Cartwright’s,

and Mr. Knightiey’s Tenants being expeéted to come in

w-th great numbers of their Neghbours in 3 large bodies.

—Indced fortune fems to favour one side, and oppiefs

the other, whose Interest lies chiefly at London, (or a

great way out of the County.) Fur besides the Mifcar-

risge of jome awing (or influencing) Letters, some un-

accountable accidents have interven’d. Mr. Daws a Far-

mer and Frecholder a few miles off, driving a load of

Wood, his Hurfes took a fright, cruft’d him against a

Tree, and he dy’d the next Day; fo that he could not

be against Sir Jutt. and the next Heir is come to poll for

him. g\nother, a Gentleman, his been kept out of the

way by a stranger accident or contrivance, his Lady ha-

ving been fo indifcreet or revengeful to jet him catch her

ina criminal Conversation with a Dancing Matter; he has

behaved fo widly on this Occasion that he can’s shew

bis Head here, but is gone out of the Country, some fay

to herd with his Brethren at London, some in the Fens.

And further, te prefirve the Independence of their Country,

some hearty Females give away themtélves and Vreshold:

to make Pollers; which being lik: to prevail better than

the fraudutent splitting of Voter, has occasion’d fime

mobbing and animoficdes, for which Warrants have been

issued; and you may depend on an Account of thein, if

worthy of notice.

The Comical Tragedy of Tor Thtmb having had fo

preat a run, (this be:ny the 33d day) he raised the envy

ot some unfuccefS'ul Poet against the Author, and occa-

lioned the tollowing Parody.

Aci. I. Sc. 1. pig. 1,

D:od. When Good ae brought this 77) was forth,

rad “wiry triumphant reizn’d:

Arthur

-F——z7

ro)

he Genias of

Then, then, O did thy genius reign.

in books.

the

from mouths.

Here,

y Piece,

By Merlin’s art .., bone

On Folly’s self begot, has nota joke

p- his skin, , . . - griftle.

Withia its leaves, but isa lump of non-ience.

Dood. Would Arthur’s subjects were griftie yy.

It F S pieces prove nonience -"’

He then might break the sted

iil hearts

This being apprehended, by the greater part of the

Members present, tobe design’d asa Satire upon the Au-

thor, for whom they havea great value; they were apaintt

the inserting of icin our Journal. But Tobferved to thom,

that let itke design’d asit woud, it was in reality a Puncpy-

ric; whichthez last lines evidently Mewed. Andthar even

the 2 preceding lines, which feemed to carry in them the

grea‘elt refleGlion, had really none upon th's perio: mance,

Lut upon the Plays which were ridiculed by it, The Col-

} ton of those Plays is Polly's (4% upon whom our Author

becot this mechty Proces which, being moreike its mo-

ther, than Father, is confquently a heap of Nenufenfe. Mr.

Curioto was wonderfully taken with the art of w//pering

in tooks which itiecems was known tothe Sages in K, Ar-

thur’s days; amartas ingenious as that of painting a found.

Davius.

Nood. They teli me it is wi:fper’d

Of all our Sages, that this might

|

of ev’ry foe.

« eyo i

fs —-

| inp

Laft Friday at the Prince William Tavern, 2 very me

ef young gentieman, alias M--re, alias Smith, who had been

concern d in @ Libel against an eminent Plyfician, bad the

Correction of the Cane beftow'd upon him by a Relation of

that Physician, which Correcion he receiv'é with exemplas

ry Patience and Rfignation. ’

FOREIGN NEWS.

Tuurspay, Fune 4.

Yesterday arrived the Mai! from France, and 3 front

Flanders.

Paris, Fune to. The King has revived the Council

of Commerce. Pof By. ~ Oa the gth the solemn open-

ing of the Gen, Assembly of the Clergy was performed

with the usual ceremonies, Daily Po. Mr. Bourgeoisy

formerly a Wincemerchant, was lately taken out of the

Mad-house athis Wife’s request: who being with him last

faturday, he beat her brains out with a cane, Poff Boy.

It is written from Rome, that since the exclufion ot the

Card. Imperiali, Ruffo, and Corfini, Card. Co'onna deems

to stand faireft for the Pontificate. Daily Post.

Amcrdum, Fun’ 9. It is adviied from Fiorence, that

an Earth-quake, which kad been felt in divers parts of”

that Dutchy the 12th, had quite ruined the small City

of Norcia; all the houses, except 2 Convents, and the

Palace of Justice, being overturn’d: that 400 persons

were already drawn from uncerthe ruins; and that 4009

were retired into the country. Writekail Even.

Fripay, fure s.

Rome, May 20. Several compiaints having been made

to the Conclave, that the Chevalier de S. George’s coache

men always crive ‘uriously, and some times over.urn othe

coaches in the Strcets, without respect of Pertons, the

sacred College dcfired him, ia the handiomeft manzer, to

order hs coach-men to take more care for th: future:

whereupon he fent a Gent'eman to assure them, that he

will turn them out of bis ferviceas soon as hs comes to

Town from Albano. Comr; Father, W— n I'm

wifirit dt, fays, this is moe to be understood \iverally, it bc-

ing highly improbable, that the Cheva ies has several Cuache

men; avd if he had, that they should over'urn Coaches

in the Streets ia this manner, which be People would noe

f jfer th m to do, but would beat them out of their boxes.

It 1s therefore ouly a prophetical and paravo 1 a. warrative,

b} way of warning, of what his Coachmen (i. e. Clergy

men,) well do, if ever they ave an cpportuuity: they will

always drive furiously, ond overturn ochber couches (i, ¢.

Churches) without refp.ct of persons. Tus a'leyorical

interpretation of this learned Father may, im forme fovic, be

called \Wwreral 5 ¢ bcing very rem. kable, as be put; cb-

serves, that the words Coachmen, Ciergymen, Coaches,

and Churches begia all with the fame letcer.

hinnpvay, Fuae 8.

Hacue, Jure,9. NS. After al ine Represenrations

of the Crown of England cgainst repairing Dunkirk, it

is pleialy ia 2 cord tion to receive ships of tome burden,

if the account be true, thet a Fregate arriv’d there the 3d

infl, trom the French Coloates ‘n America. voft Pov.

Hague, fiauet3, Yesterday te cao’ thote vile wretches

[persons convictes ot y} were pub‘ kly exceuted

here; tho’ if sioney could have been of any ute, none

perhaps would have ben wanting to commute the

punifiment: but to the immertal honour o* the Courts

of justice here, there ts no retpeét of persons ia such

cates. Thee persons were first hanged, then two at

them burnt, aud the other § carried to “cheveling, and

thrown into the fea. Cenfidering the number of pere

fors already in prison upon this tcore, and the cilcaves

ries duly made, this execution may be reparce* only as

the Prologue to the Tragedy likely to entue. did.

Yeterday arrives the sail from France. ¢

Paris, Fune 4, Letters from Rome of the 24th im-

port, thar the sacred Colrge cid 1tend to 49 tc to the

Pontifical Threne the Card. Pico de \iirandola. burt that

it was aporehended, that Card. Cinfuegos would put the

nega’ ve upon bm likewise, in the Empercr’s naine,

D. Post.

sodomy

'

4

‘4

Tuecspay, Pune 9.

Thie day ar.ved the Mal from Hollend.

Vienna, Pune rz This Day arrived a Courier from

Count Kensar, Ambassador Exiraordinary ar the French

Court, which vives tarther bopes of an \ccommodation

than before, an. cs expested that Orders will soon b: gi-

ven to the Treops their IMiarch towards Lralv .o wait

for trefh O.ders. We hear trom Belgrade, that the Turks

on the Side of Uungary hadafl)moled goooo Men, but

thar they bad attempted no Maare: of Hofiices upon

the imperial Territoncs, which m le it duppoied their

Designs were against tome otaer lace, tiowever, as

all Things are rescy for their Reception fliouic they ate

tempt any Enterprize, no great Umbrage is taken theies

at at this Time. Sr. /ama’s Evening,

The Course of the Exchoage.

Amftercam 34 5 "1 Madrid 42 1 half

Ditto at Sight 343 Bilboa 42 1 8th

Rotterdam 34 6 Leghorn 51 1 half

Antweip 35 t Genoa 54 ¢ half

Hamburgh 33 § ‘Venice 49

Parisat Sight 32 5 8ths Lisbon ¢.6d. halfa¢ 8ths

Bourdeaux at fight 32 1 half | Porto <s. 5d. 3 Sthsat half

Cadiz 42 2 halt } Dublin si 1 qth

Prices of Goods at Bear Key on Monday.

per Quarter per Quarter

Wheat — 26 to 28 Hog Peas —— 12 to 16

Rye = 12 to 13 Pouing Peas—20 to 25

Ber'ey ———12 to 33 Pale Male — 16 to 22

Oats —— § to 13 Brown Malt— 51 to 1%

Horse Beans 18 to 2¢ 21¢$ mae 22 (0 24

Coals 22s. to 265. per Chai¢fon.

Hops 1728 — 26s, to 29s. per Hundred.

Hops 1729 — 308. to 65s. per Hundred. j

Rape Seed 13]. to 16]. per Lait,

On Tuesday Stocks were

South-Sea 103 3 8ths, a half, South Sea An-

nuity 106 3 Sths, ar half. Bank rqt. India 190

1 haf, 190 14th, Three per Cent. Annuity 96 1 4th.

Million Bank 107. African 45 1 half, a6. York Buiid-

ings 18 1 8th, Royal Assurance (100 1. paid in) 94.

Londonditto (13 |. paidiv) 12 1 8th. Bank Circula-

tion 71. 15s. South Sea Bonds 41. 12s. India ditto

51. 3s. English Copper 31. 15 s% Welch ditto

al. ais.

fo the Worthy Livery-MeEN of the

City of LONDON.

Gentlemen,

7OUR Vore and Interest are humbly de-

fired for

HENRY RAPER, Ej;

Citizen and Painter-Stainer ;

AND

JAMES CHAMBERS, Fy

Citizen ard Gold{mith ;

To be Suerirrs of this City and County of Middie-

fex, for the Year ensuing; who are the Two toremost

in the Lift of those Gentlemen that for many Years pait

hive been nominated by several Lord Mayors to serve

that Office.

N.B. It bas been unanimously resolved in Common-

Council, that for the fisture all Sheriffs Fines shall be ap-

propriated ONLY towards luildiig @ Mawsion-

House for the Lord Mayor, fo much wanted to fuptort

the Honour and Dignity of this Great City.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

Speecily will be published,

NuMBER II.

[To be continued ]

N AUTHOR to be LETT: Being a

History of the past and present Transactions of the

Members of the Bathes : In which will be fully and

faithtully delineated the charaéter of that modest, inge-

‘

nious, tall, young Man Jemmy Moore Smytug. By

Icariot Hackney.

We, being neither Scholars, Doctors, nor Divines, call

our felues GENTLEMEN 5 cwhich fare no body cvill deny, be-

eause one of us is the Sov of a Footman, One, &c.

Grub street Journal, N° 19.

N. B. Soon efter will also be published, The Genzsle-

men of the Dunciad. A Poem. By Mr. Savage, with

a Preface.

Printed for L. Gilliver, at Homei’s Head against Sr.

Dunftan’s Church, Flcet-street,

Jut published, ;

Printed on a superfine Paper, in two Volumes in Quarto,

S° ME OBSERVATION S made in travelling

through France, Iraly, &ce im the Years 1720, 1721 and

1722: Containing a large ard particular Accoun: ot the most re-

matkable Curiwfities in those Countries, ss well such as relate

to their Manners, Customs, religious Orders, Ceremonies, &c. as

likewise of their Archicecture, Paintings, Sculpture, and other An-

tiquities, which are esteemed mo worthy ci the Oblfervation of

an Enelifh Traveller. With some shorc Remarks on the Air,

Soil, Produions, Trade, Manufafures of several Places, occafic-

nally anterfperfed. By EowARD WRicHT, Esq; Ulufirated with

40 curious Drawings, detign’d upon the Spot by the Author, and

engrav’d on Copper by the best Hands.

Printed for Meflieurs Ward and Wickfteed in the Inner ‘Tem-

ple Lave.

Jut published. :

ROPOSALS for Printing by_ Svbf{cription a

beautiful and correct Edition of ROBERTI

3. EPHANI Thefaurus Lingus Latine. Compared

With the beit Editions of the Clatiics, the Keferenc.s ad-

justed and suppiied by f. MARTYN, F.R.S. ard

the whole corrected and revifid from the Press by

R. RUSSEL, M.A.

The great Ufetulncfs of this Work having rendcr'd it

fearce (tho’ it has paficd four Impreflions) that the beit

Edition is now fold for at least sixteen Pounds, it is pre-

furned that the Re-printing of it, with theie Improvements,

will be very acceptable to all che Learned in Europe.

This Work is to be printed from the last Ed'tion

(printed at Lyons, containing 653 Sheets, divided into fou

Tomes) and will be rendered much more useful, by c.ting

not only the Books but Chapters of the Prote Authors,

and even the Lines of the Poets; which being adapted

to the improved Editions of the Clafhcs, wedoubdt not will

be as agreeable to the Studious, as labuiious tothe Editois,

Ic will be printed in the same Manner, and on as vood

Paper, as the Specimen annexed to the Proposals,

The Pricesto Subscribers will be fix Guineas a Setr in

Shecis; only one to be paid down, two on the Delivery

of the first Volume (which will contain about 170 Sheets)

and one more for each of the other three Voliumcs

Some Copics will be piinzed on a larger Paper for the

Curious, at nine Guineas a Sett in Sheets ; two to be paid

down, two for the first Volume, two for the second, one

fo che third, and two for the latt.

As soon as 200 are subscribed for, the Work shall b

put to Press,

The Names and Titles of the Subfc:ibcis will ba pre-

‘

fixed to the first Volume.

When the Subscription is closeds the Price will be rai-

- to eight Guineas for the {mall Paper, and iwelve the

arge.

Recetaes for the Subfeription-Money are fizned by all

the Prop. i-tors; which they will pay into the Hands ot

Francis Chifd, F1q, Aldeiman, and return it to the Sudteri-

bers by Chrifimas next, it there is not Sufficient Encoutage-

ment to proceed.

Sub{criprmons are taken in by the Fd rors; and 7 Bat-

ley, at the Dove in Pater-Nofler Row, A Vandenhoeck, at

Virgil’s Head, aver-against the New Church in te Strand ;

F Cogan, at the Middle-Temple-Gate, Fleet-S reet 3 and

the Printers, S. Palmer and 7 Hggorfon, in Bartholomew-

Close.

This Day is p blithe,

(Price Four Penc:,)

A General Hi ory of E-xccu ions, Numb IV.

(To bt continued.)

Ontaining 2n Account otf the ‘ives and Actions of

the two following Mal: .:€tois cx cated at I yburn

the first Instant, vz. Join Doyle, a tuce isfur Hignway-

man, and John Youn, abahaous ic b Alio of fix

Maletaétor try’ and coidemn’d atthe Lent AM zes, berore

the fate Lord Chir Ba on Pengelly, ard Mr. Jucttice For-

tefcue Al nl, and exceared at Hearyjtree Gallowa near

Exeter, two of them proteliing their Inn: ¢ nee tothe lait.

Printed vy Ro Newon, at se. Join --Cate, and fold

by the Booksellers in Tewn and Country

Where miy be had, Price 4d each.

Numb. I, containing the | ite of Everett, a noted High-

wayman, of Goodburr, a Poet, and of two-oticr Male-

faftors executed at the same Time.

Numb. II. containing an Account of five Mak f étors,

and a Description ot a !aige Gang of Thicv sand Cicats,

which inteft at Tics all parts of the Kingdon.s ot greet

Use to Officers ot Parishes, and private i'ersons, for guard-

ing against and det¢ting the said Rogues

Numb. II, Contain ng an amp’e Rel-tion of the noted

Villain James Dalton, and of his Rob vies for 20 years

Of Hugh Houghton the Bristol Mail Roboer 5 and turce

others.

Nete, This Work mecting with. Enconragiment will

be continued every S:fiions, and the Numbers regula ly

published soon afver the Execution, and will contain an

Account of the Criminals executet and transported

throughout England, in order to make a compleat Vo-

Inme at the Year’s End, when a general Index will be

given for that Purpose

BOOKS printed and fold by Jo n Brotherton art the

Bible in Cornhil.

Life of Oliver Cromwel,8vo, | (oruon’s Geog. Grammar,

Colle¢tion of Noveis, r2mo | Boyei's Dittionary in 4to,

6 Vol, or 8, ra)

D’Ano's Talesof the Fairics, | Blais’s sermous, 5 Vol. Svo,

3 Vol. 12mo. Shiketpear’s Plays,

Free Thoughts on Religion. | Adcdifuns Worl:s, 4 Vol,

Pilgrin’s Progress in 8vo, | Lockyer s Trade to India

with Cuts, > Vol. | Abelard’s Letters

Sp étators, § Vol. Garth’s Ovi ly 2 Vol

Pridcanx Conncétion, 4 Vol. | Plutarch s ‘ives, 3 Vel.

Musical Mire 4 Vo'e 8vo. Don Quixor, + Vol.

The Dancing Master, by Mr. | Guardians, 2 Vol.

Folin Fifex, 400. Ovid’s Epiftiss

Boyer’s Telemachus, t12mo J Dryden’s Virgil.

Gay's Fables, 8vo. |

: This Bay is published

The Third Edition, corrected, ado nd with a new Sere

_. of Cutts, .

; And the Effigies of Mr. BUTLER,

Cu tously engraved by Mr. Vander Gusht, and Lert fully

pint.d in one neat Pocket-Volume, in the fame Stile

of Hudibras, the entice three Volumes of ;

HE Posthumous Works of Mr. SAMUEL BUT-

LER, Author of Hudidras, Written in the Time of

tie Grand &ebetlion, and in te Reign of King Cha ls If.

Being a Collett.on of Satir.s, Specches and Roflettins

upon thoe limes. Published from Original MSS. ang

tcarce and valurble Pieces formerly printed.

Printed by and for Richard Reily in Little Britain-

and told by the Booksellers of London and Wefta.initey

Ot whom may be had, just published,

PARALLELS of the Sounds and Syllables of ry

FRENCH ana ENGLISH Langwaxs; or, the French:

Picn neia.don made cfy to the knglifh Learner Bel: S

1 ¢.itan easy and tpeedy Method fuited to all Capac.

tis, by which Learners may of themselves, without the

Athftance of any Muiter, attain the tru2 Pronunciation

ot the French Tongue. A Work never before attcinpted,

Just published,

T# E LI FE of the Riht Reverend Dr WHIT E

KENNETT, late Lord Lishop cof Ie e-borough; with

fe eval ovpinal Letrers of the late Archbishop of Cancerbury, Dr.

Ven.Mon 3 the lace Earl of Sunderlasd; Bishop Kennerr, ec. and

urious original Papers aud Records, never before publuhed,

aid «4iiQ0

The Fore'gner’s Guide: Or, a necessary and instruSive Com.

Pasion, both for the Foreigner and Native, in their Tour through

the Cicies or London and Westminster. Giving,

iit, A general Description o: rhefe ewo Cites, with an Accouns

of their respective G: vernment. y

adly. A Description of the Royal Palaces, Noblemens Houses

pudlick Bandings, Churches, Streets, Squares, and the molt res

markable Places in and near the famous Metropolis > Wuoch an

Account of che Inns ot Court, Royal Society, publick Walks. Die

versions, :emarkable Days, Court Days, Pott Doys. And,

3a!y. A Description or the several villages in che Neigtibour..

hood; as Chelsea, Kenfin.ton, Richmond, Greenwich, W: olwici:

Hampttead; and also others more remote, viz. Hampron-Cour:,

Winafor, Oxtord, Camoridze, Dienheim, New-Market Horie

Races, Epsom, Tunbridge. Bath. And,

$fhiy. An Account oc the Rates of Coaches, Watermen 3 aud

sifo che Races of Polt Horses ; with the Roads to Dover and

Harwich.

Very ufetul and entertaining both to Foreigner and Native, and

done into Enghth and French.

Where may be had,

LOVE LETTERS on ail Occasions, lately passed berween

Pestons ot Diftinétion. Coiected by Mrs. Eliza. Haywood,

Pleasure with Sorrow, Peace with War allay‘d,

Liberty tetrer’d, Hope by Fear difmay’d ;

Imbitter’d Honey, Earnest mix’d with flay,

Are, Love! the Smblems ot thy tov’reign Sway.

Princed tor, and fold by Francis Cogan, at the Middle.Temple

Gare in Fleec-fireet.

Jut published,

H E Female PARSO N: O-, Beau in the

Sudds, An Opcra, 28 it is a€ted at the New Tlheare

in the Hay-market. By Mr. Charles Coffey, Author of

the Beggar’s Wedding.

Printd for Fran, Cogen, at the Mitdle-Temple-gate in

Fi et-ftrect, and Lawton Gillver over aganuit St. Dur-

fian’s Church, Price ane Shilling.

; Where may be had,

Tie Amours of Phifario and Olinda 3 or, the Intrizucs

of Windsor: A genuine Fiftory. Priceone Shilling, Alie

An ESSAY founded on Arguments Netural and

Moral, proving the Immortali.y of the Son!, Tianflared

trom the Original Manulcript of the Archb.shop of Cam-

bray. Price one Shilling.

Just published,

HE LAW agunt BANKRUPTS: Ora

Treatise wherein the Statutes azainit Bankrupts are

explained by feve al Cates, Retolucions, Judgments, and

Decrees, both at Common-Law, and in Chancery. TYogc-

ther with the Learning ot Duclarations and Pleadings

relating thereunto. To which are ikewitc added, Forms

anid Durettions ior Commithone:s, and Precedents fic for

the perufal of all Lawy-rs, Me chants and Tradesmen

Sic utere tus, ut alrena ron Ledas,

The fifth Edition To which is now added, An Ap-

pendix of all the Statutes relating to Bankrupts, to the

Yerr 1725. By Tho. Goodinge, Serjeant at Law. Printed

by E.and R. Nutt, and R. Gofling, (Assigns of Edward

Sayer, Esq;) tor E. Cozan, at the Middic-Templc Gate

Flret-itreet.

Juit publishew,

WO EPISTLES to Mr. POPE concéin-

ing the Authors of the Age. And the Me chants

on Trade, Navivation and Perce, Deftgned to g.ve 3

new but juit Idea, of the Pindarie Ole, and to shew rhe

Scripture Style of the Praphcts, highly proper fur 3%

Dedicated to the Duke of Chiandos,

Both by the Author ot the '!niversal Paffon ‘

Printed for Larron Gilliver at Homer’s Head agai: f St.

Dunstan’s Church in Fleet-street.

—_ |

LONDON: Printed for Capt. Gulliver and F. Cogan near the Temple, Mr. Jackson in Pall-Mall, and J. Brotherton near the Exchange, and Sold by J. Roberts in Warwick-Lane, where Letters and Advertisements, &c. are taken in.

[Price Two Pence.]

