The Grub-street Journal.

Thursday, JUNE 13, 1730.

Thou too, great Wootston, bere exalt thy

throne 3

And prove no miracles are like thy own.

Dunciad, B. III.

Mr. Wootstow having though: tir to publish very lately a

fecon Part of his Defence, the Society ordered the following Letter, {ent about twe monthsago, to be now

pudiished.

Vir. hAVIUS,

i great usefulness of such a Paper as yours

is generally acknowledged, which may af-

tit us informing ajuft judgment of Baoks.

Nothing can depreciate this fort of Criti-

cism, butill-nature, and personal reflections :

neither of which (with great pleasure I can

fayi ) have I yet found inyours. inyourlaft [being Ne

13] you made some short Remarks upon a late Pamph-

let concerning the Mareriality and mortality of the foul,

whicti endeavoured to deprive us of the telfef of future

existence, and of the plealing hopes of a glorious immor-

tality. You have sufficiently expofid the abfurcity of

that Authos’s criticifins cn the Sciipture, in three or four

flagrant instances; by which we may judge of the rest.

It was those Remarks, which encouraged me to fend you

this; mot doubting but the generous delign of it will

meet with your approbation, and be seconded by some-

thing of the like mature, more worthy and acceptable to

the Public.

In chat Paper you cursorily touched upon the cha-

raéter of Mr. Woonston; which occasioned the follow-

ing contiderations upon his Cafe. I had no sooner read

the first of his fix Discourses, but I plainly perceived, that

this undertaking did not proceed trom an honest and fin-

cere desire of removing error, and re-establishing truth:

for then he would have written with good nature, mo-

defty, and decency. But since his Pieces are fullof ma-

licious refle€tions, arrogant hoafts, and f{currilous banters;

since he has treated not only his Adversaries, but even

his Subject, the most sacred Person, and the most sacred

Things, with a most audacious and blasphemous ridi-

cule; itis evident the true motive of his undertaking

was Only to gratify the irregu'ar passions of his own de-

praved heart.

Upon this, one would at first fight imagine, as such

Pieces justly acfervea legal prosecution, that this was the

most proper method to prevent the mischief which would

probab'y arise from suffering them to be {pread abroad

among the people with impunity. But allowing the

right of such prosecutions to be built upon the strong-

eft foundation; yet 1 think they ought in good policy

very seldom to be pyt in practice. It is natural to pity

all persons who fufiey the penalities of laws; and cipe-

cially those who have brought these sufferings upon

themselves, by a disinterested design (as they pretend)

of undeceiving others, and by obeying the d:éates of

their conscience, in pubishing to the world useful and

necessary truths. Such prosecutions seem to carry in

them an intimation, which is always propagated as

much as possible by the sufferers, that there is some-

thing ex'raordinary io what he has advanced, which

cinnot be answered by argument, and therefore this

coercive method is pursued. And thus a Person is of-

ten rendered very considerable in the eyes of the world,

who was cither altogether obscure, or even contemp-

tible before; and his writings aad notions are much far-

ther diffufed by those very means which were intended

to suppress them.

The firstftep therefore to be taken, in relation to such

Writiags, is to publish a proper answer to them: which

should not be written by a person who is in a much

higher station in the world, or is more famous in the

republic of letters, than the Antagonist. For the dig-

nity and reputation of the Person concerned renders the

controversy more considerable, and imperceptibly raises

an obscure adversary to a kind of equality with his op-

ponent, And as elevation is generally attended with en-

vy, if any hasty thoughts, or unguarded expressions ap-

pear in such a Work, under the fan¢tion of a great name,

the world is apt to disregard the most laborious and

learned performance. ,;

Such an Anfiver ought likewise to be written in the

same manner with the Piece which is to be refuted;

and must accordingly be either serious, or ludicrous, or

both. Whoever undertakes to mount the stage, and dif-

pute with a Merry Andrew, must put on grave, or co-

mical airs, in conformity to his: for if he be deficient in

either, he will be judged by the learned audience to be

interior in the argument. This conde towards here-

tical Buffoons, seems to be recommended by the wisest of

men, Prov. xxvi. §. nfwer a fool according to his folly,

left he be wife in his own conceit.

Upon these accounts, tho’ your Society has sufficiently

cleared it {elf from the scandal brought upon it by one

single Member; yet 1 hope some of jyour learned body

will give the world a new account of the state of this

controversy, and supply the defects which may appear in

the past management of it. And notwithstanding this

miraculous Writer, in the opinion of the Patrons of

Reason, has treated the subje& with great depth of learn-

ing, strength of argument, and poignaucy of wit; yet

I expeét to fee much more of all three, displayed in the

detence of Revelation, if your Society shall think fit to

incourage their Members in {uch an undertaking: which

will be very acceptable to the generality of your Rea

ders, and in particular to, Sir,

April 6, Your most humble servant,

1739, PHILO-LIBERT.

The following Lines, having been read, were ordered

to be printed, as likely to be acceptable to all Readers of

taste. They are part of a Poem, yet unprinted, called,

4s Essay on the Dunciap: written bya young Gentle-

man of St. Mary Hail, Oxford.

Shy the Soul, or make the Heart sincere;

To arm our lives with honesty severe ;

To shake the wretch beyond the reach of Law;

Deter the young, and touch the bold with awe ;

To raise the fall’n, to hear the fuffeter’s crics 5

And fanétify the virtues of the wife;

Old Satire rofe from probity of micd,

The noblest Ethicks to retorm mankind.

As Cynthia’s orb excells the gems of night:

So Epic Satire shines, distinétly bright.

Here Genius lives, and strength in ev'ry port,

And lights and fhades, and tancy fix’d by art.

A second B:auty in its nature ties,

It gives not Things, but Befigs to our eyes ;

Life, Subftarce, Spire animate the whole;

Fiétion and Fable are the Sense and Soul.

The common Dulncfs of mankind, array’d

In pomp, here lives, and breathes, a wovd'rous Maid :

The Poct decks her with each unknown Grace,

Clears her du]! brain, and brightens ber dark face.

See! Father Chaos o’er his First-born nods,

And Mother Night, in Majesty of Gods!

See Ouerno’s throne, by bands Pontific rife!

And a Fool’s Pandemonium {trike our eyes!

Ev’n what on *** the public bounteous pours

Is sublimated here to Golden (how’rs.

A Duznciad or a Lutrin is compleat,

And one in action; ludicrously great.

Each wheel rolls round in cue degrees of force;

E’en Epi/odes are needful, or of cour(e :

Of course, when things are virtually begun

E’er the first ends; the Father and the Son:

Or else fo needful, and exactly prac’d,

That nothing 1s ll fwited, or ill-plac’d.

True Epic’s a vast World, and This a {mall:

One has its proper beauties, and one all.

Like Cynthia, one in thirty days appears,

Like Saturn one, rolls round in thirty years.

There opens a wide Tract, a length of Floods,

A height of Mountains, and a waste of Woods:

Here but one {pot; nor Leaf, nor Green depart

From Rules, e’en Nature seems the Child of Art.

As Unities in Epic works appear:

So must they shine in full distinétion here.

Ev’n the great Iliad moves with flower pow’ :

That forty days demands, this forty hours.

Each other Satire humbler arts has known

Content with meaner Beauties, tho’ its own:

Enough for that, if rugged in its course

The Verse but rolls with vehemence and force ;

Or nicely pointed in th’ Horatian way

Wounds keen, like Syrens mischievously gay.

oa

Here, All has Wit, yet must that Wit beProng,

Beyond the Turns of Epigram, or Song.

The Thought must rife exa@ly from the vice,

Sudden, yet finish’d, clear, and yet conci?e :

One Harmony mutt fir/t with Jaff unite ;

Asall true Paintings have their Place and Light ;

Tranjitions mutt be quick, and yet design'd,

Not made to fill, but just retain the mind :

And Similies, like meteors of the night;

But give one flafh of momentary Light.

As thinking makes the Soul, low things expreft

In high-rais’d terms, define a Dunciad bet.

Books and the Man demand as much, or more,

Than be who wander'd to the Latian (hore:

For here (eternal Grief to Duns’s foul,

And B——’s thin Ghost!) the Part contains the Whole:

Since in Mock-Epic none succeeds, but he

Who taftes the whole of Epic Peefy.

The Moral must be clear and understood;

But finer still, if negatively good :

Blaspheming Capanens obliquely thows

‘T’adore those Gods A&neas fears and knows

A Fool’s the Heroes; but the Poet’s end

Is, to be candid, mode, and.a Friend.

Let Classic Learning fanctify each part,

Not only show your Reading, but your Art.

The charms of Parody, like those of Wit,

It well contrafted, never fail to hit;

Onc half in light, and one in darkness dref,

' (For contraries oppos’d still thine the best.)

When a cold Page half breaks the Writer’s heart,

By this it warms, and brightens into Art.

When Rhetorick glitters with too pompous pride,

By this, like Ciree, ’cis un-ceity’d.

So Berecynthia, while her off{pring vye

In houuge ww the Nutlicsa vf ehe cbry,

(Deck’d ia rich robes, of trees, and plants, and flow'rs,

And crown’dillustrious with an hundred tow’rs, )

O’er all Parnaflus cafts her eyes at once,

And fees an hundred Sons——and each a Dunce,

The Language next : from hence new pieafure {pringss

For S:yles are dignify'd, as well as Things.

Tho’ Sense dubfitts, distin€& from phrase or found,

Yet Gravity conveys a furer wound.

The chymic secret, which your pains wou’d find,

Breaks out, unfought for, in Cervantes’ mind ;

And Quixot’s Wildness, like that King’s of old,

Turns all he touches into Pomp and Gold.

Yet in this Pomp discretion must be had;

‘Lho’ grave, not tiff; tho’ whimsical, not mad:

In Works like these it Fustian might appear,

Mock-Epics, Blackmore, wou'd not cost thee dear.

We grant, that Butler ravithes the heart,

As Shakespear foar’d beyond the reach of art;

(For nature form’d those Poets without Rules,

To fill the world with imitating Fools.)

What Burle/que could, was by that Genius donc;

Yet faults it has, impossible to shun :

Th’ unchanging strain tor want of grandeur cloys,

And gives tco oft the oe mirth of Boys;

The thort-legp’d verse, and double-gingling Sound,

So quick surprize us, that our heads run round ;

Yet in this Work pecular Life presides,

And Hit, for all the world to glean besides.

Here pause, my Mufe, too daring and too young !

Nor rafh'y aim at Precepts yet unfung.

Can Man the Matter of the Dunciad teach?

And these new Pays what Other hopes to reach?

"Twere better judg’d, to study and explain

Each ancient Grace he copies not in vain;

To trace thee, Satire, to thy ucmost Sprirz,

Thy Form, thy Changes, and thy Authors firg.

It is not doubted, but that thie Specimen will excite

the desire of the Public for the who.e Piece; and it i#

hoped it may be a means to meve the learned Author to

gratify it.

LONDON.

THURSDAY, Fuze It.

Important Articles omitted in our two former, and

here abridged. The Wives of Mr, Stanton, a great

Stoneecutter, and of Mr. Asabrofe an eminent Brewer,

gv

i

eM r F

The Grub-street Journal. ~" 4

Gead. Cour. May 28. Whittonfon, a Porter, having

quarrelied with his wife, hanged himself. Even, Pof.—

A boy 8 years old, wathing his feet in a pond, fell in, and

was drowned. St. Fames’s Even. ——— Hen. Martin, Mr.

Secres fon, and a Girl drowned in the Tharnes; and a

Man in the New River. Comr. 29.—— A Country Carter

backing his cart, brokea boy’s leg in Bloomsbury market:

and a Drawer toa Tavern, riding in a waggon, had his

leg thattef€d by another waggon pailing by. off Boy. 30.—

A chimney took fire, but was extinguished. Cour, June 5.

——A child of 3 years old fell into Fleet-ditch, and was

brought out again alive. Poff Boy. A boy loft out of

a mackarel boat taken upat Limehouse hole. D. Poff ——

Clerk a Carman, affli€ted with the gout, hanged himéself.

D.Fourn, Fune 3.—The Wife of Mr. Singleton aneminent

Broker, dead. Daily Po/?.—— Mr. Blandford, a Printer and

Publisher, dead. S. James's Even. An old Cheifea Pen-

fioner found dead in the Willow Walk; and an Licrb-wo-

man’s girl drowned her self. Poff Boy, 5-

Yesterday morning, and not be‘ore, the Duke of Nor-

folk fet ext for Dover. Cosrant.

The fame day a reprieve was fent to the Savoy, for

Stokes, who was ordered to be shot for desertion : and

he is to be fent to the garrison at Gibraltar, for his life-

time, Poff Boy.

Tuesday George Burrington, EX; embarked on board

a vessel in the river for his Governmcat of South-Caro-

lina. Daily Poff.

We hear that the effigies of the late Will. Congreve,

Efg; has been curiously done in wax-work at the expence

of 200]. bid. — It is pity it was not done before,

that the, Baffo Relievo in Wejtiamfter- Abbey, might have

been curioutly done after it.

Mr. John Walker, neac the Hay-market, is appointed,

by the D. of Argyle, Tin-man to the Office ot Ordi-

nance. Ibid. .

Tuesday they began at the Victualling-office to victual

out the Transports: and they are bufy at the War-office

preparing necessary measures for the embarkation of the

Guards. Even. Poff. We hear they are to be imbarked

by the 15th of July, if the Emperor does not come in

by that time. Lond. Even.

Monday night a firebroke out at a Distillers, the cor-

mar af Randp-_leg walle i Guuchwath, which confimed

the house, and did contiderable damage to those adjoining,

occasioned by the head of a still flying off, and the {pi-

rits taking fire. Even. Post.

They write from Dorchester, that tke infectious di-

ftemper which has been fo fatal about that place, is much

abated. St. James's Even. |

Sunday a Jew born in France was baptised at the

French Church in the Savoy. 1did.

The Rev. Dr. Lambert, Vice Chancellor of Cambridge,

at the public Commencement, beginning the tft mon-

day in July, has appointed the following Gentlemen te

keep the several Acts, viz. the Rev. Nr. Wiliams, Fel-

low of St. John’s, the Dr. of Divinity; the Rev. Mr,

Whalley, Fellow of Pembroke. ball, the Batchelor of Di-

vinity; Mr. Trollop, of the fame, the Philosophical; Mr.

Halls, of St. John's, the Batchelor of Laws; Mr. Mart.

Warren, of Bury, late of Emanuel, the Dr. of Physic;

Mr. Taylor, Feliow of St. Jolin’s, the Matic; and Mr.

Inglith of Trinity-Hall, the Dr. of Laws. Lond Ev.

This day being the anaiveriary of his Majesty’s accef-

fioa, the Lord Mayor, &c. went to St. "aul’s, where the

Rev. Mr. Freeman preached. St. ‘James's Even.

Mr. Woolfton is now closely confined in the King’s

Rench Prison. D. Poff. Mr. Woorston himself owns

this to be literally true,

Monday the Hon. Ezek. Mugdale, Efg; was married

t> Mrs. Boddington, relict of the tate Tho, Boddington,

E(q; a fortune of 11,0001. in money, and 13001. per

an. Sr. Fames’s Even. Tuesday Sam. Child, Esq; to

Mrs. Edgir, daughter of the late Millicent Edgar, Esq;

London Even. And yesterday Mr. de Cotta, aa eminent

Jew Merchant, to a Niece of Mr. Salvadore, a rich Jew

Merchant in Lime-street. D. Post.

Laft week died at his Lodgings near St. Clement’s, Sir

Tho. Allzyn, Bar. aged 82, Son of Sir Tho. Lord Mayor

at the Reftcuracion; and is succeeded in Honour by Edm.

Allen, Ef; his only surviving Brother. St. Fanses’s Ev.

Yesterday died of a Consumption Will. Rutty, M. D.

Secretary to the Reyzl Society, io the flower of his age,

to the great regret of all his friends and acquaintance; to

whom he was very «'ca°, on account of his many va-

luable quaiities; which, a with his learning and

emigent skill in his profeffion, had deservedly introduced

him into considerable practice, which was iacrealing eve-

ry day. D, Fourv.

ied j Fripay, June i?,

Yesterday Tho. Charllworth, lately convicted of for-

ery, wasremoved by an Habeas Corpus from the Fleet,

where he was Prisoner for debt, to the King’s Bench:

but James Cox, found guilty with him, is gotaway. D. P.

Sat. the Master of the Rolls, upon hearing a Caule be-

tween Eliz. Williams, Plaint. and Eliz. Williams, Def.

about 370]. per ann. in Carmarthenshire, in possession of

the Def. as Heir at Law, and claimed by the Plaine. on

proving her legitimacy; upon which there had been for-

merly a Trial at Hereford, and a Verdict for the Def. was

p-reased to order a new trial. did.

Yesterday morning died James Bancroft, Esq; in Arun-

del-street, an Irish Genticman, reputed to have died worth

49,000 |. which devolves to his Son Tho. Bancroft, Esq;

now in Dublin. Poff Boy.

Wednesday a Gentleman of great fortune cut his throat

in the Strand, whose Brother shot himself about a year

ago. Ibid. .

Yesterday 2 men in liquor near Tottenham High-cross,

riding very briskiy, one of them came with such force

y ge aGentleman coming that way, that both the hor-

es were killed on the {pot, and ‘tis reported the Gentle-

man was killed by the fall. D.fourn.

Yesterday a Cooper in St. Johu’s-street was feiz’d and

carried before Justice Robe, being charged with a rape

upon a certain young Woman. The Man considering

the danger he was in, compounded the affair, by fending

for a Clergyman from the Fleet, who married them at

a Tavern in Smithfield, to the great joy of all puities.

Post Boy — Such precedents may prove of dangerous con/>-

quence, by introducing a very easy way of geiting imme-

diately either a portion, or a husband.

SATURDAY, Fuve 13.

Monday commenced the election of a Knight of the

Shire for the county of Northamptus; the Candidates

were Sir Justinian Ifham, Bar, and Will, Hanbury, Efg;

after the greatest struggle that has been known, Sir Jutt. car-

ried itby 160vctes, Daily Poff. 170 Courant, Post Bey,

Daily Fourn, The E.of Haillitax lett Northampron fon:

hours before the Poll was caft up, and arrived on Thursi

night at his house in New-Palace: Yard, Westmin. D. Poj.

Monday Mr. Tho. Thurland, disordered in his tcnies

cut his throat at a farm-house near Mitcham, and ured

on Wednesday. Courant.

A few days past they began to inclosea piece of ground,

lately purchased of Sir Rich. Grosvenor, for a buryiog-

place for the parish of St. John the Evang. Weftm. in the

road from the Horse-ferry to Tothill-ficlds. Poff Boy.

Laft night the Right Hon. L Harrington arriv.d in

Town from Paris, with a great retinue. Davly Po/f,

Yesterday morning died at her house in Red-]:on ftreer,

the Lady Witherington, Reli€t of Sir Franc. Wither ng-

ton, of Froome in Somersetshire, Bar. Pof? Boy. The R. HH,

Lady Widdrington, Wife of the late L. Widdrington. D, Py.

Yesterday the great Cause some time depencing in

Chancery, between Rich Fitzgerald of Gray:-Inn, B/q;

and the R. H. L. Falconberge and his Lady, touching

the estate late of Mr. Fowler, of Sr. Thomas in Statlord-

shire, was finally determined. and a moiecy of ic was

decreed to Mr. Fitzgerald. D. Fourn.

Dover, Fune 19. Monday Sir Vho. Twiften, and his

Brother embarked here for France. The latter is gone

upon histravels, and the former to attend him {ume iittie

part of the way. did.

Tuesday an Indiétment was found by the Grand Jury

at Westminster against Matt. Delahay, a Sawyer, for

wounding Hage Fortute, dnative of Mcrocco, Burler to

Sir Charles Wager. The Prosecutor being a Mahomet.n,

was {worn upon the A!choran. Evev. Poff. Benj, Ham-

med. St. Fames’s and Lond. Even,

We hear that an eminent Attorney at law, well

known in Westminster- hall, hath received orders to com-

mence a prosecution against a Lady in the north, for

breach of a marriage promise. St Fames’s Even.

We hear Will. Benson, E/q; late one of the Secondarirs

of Wood-street Compter, hath brought his action against

one of the Knights of the Bath, for having criminal con-

versation with his wife, and laid his damages (as we hear)

at 10,cool, Bond. Even.

This day Will. Lee, Esq; and Tho. Birch, of the Mid-

dle Temple, were called to the Dignity of Serjeants, at

the Court of Common-Pieas, Westminster; they after-

wards made a fine entertainment for the Judges, &c, at

S:rjeants Inn : which, and some other expences, we

bear, cost above §09], The motto for their rings is,

Florent ub Ca/fare leges. Ibid.

We hear the Candidates to succeed Dr. Rutty, decea-

fed, as Secretary to the Royal Society, are Dr. Wigyan,

Dr. Marty», and Dr. Mortimer. did.

Monpay, Fune1§.

Windsor, Fune 12, On wednedday their Majesties, with

his R. H. the Prince, &c. came hither about q in the

afternoon from Richmond. Immediately upon thew

Arrival, his Grace the D. of St, Allaus, High Stewar

ag ee

- ae = . *

of this Corporation, with the Mayor, Aldermen, ang

John Owen, Esq; the Recorder, waited on their Maje-

fties; and Mr. Recorder made them a very bandfom

{peech, suitable to the occasion, at which their Majesties

expressed great satisfaction. In the evening there were

bonfires, illuminations, and other publick demontftrations

of joy; and yesterday being the anniversary of his Ma.

jesty’s {ucceflion to the Crown, there was a numeroys

and {piendid appearance at Court of the Nobility, fo.

reign Ministers, asd other persons of distin€tion, tocom.

pliment their Majesties thercupon; and the like demon.

ftrations of joy were shewn throughout the whole Town

as the preceding night, which were concluded by a Mag-

nificent Ball in the Town-hall. Dai.y Post.

Yesterday the R. H. L. Bingley, Treasurer of the

Houfhoid, Sir Con. Darcy, Comptrojkr, and Sir Wm

Strickiand, Secretary at war, were {worn of his Majesty’s

most Hon. Privy Council. D.fourn.

Saturday morn, the Person, who was to hop from the

Plough at Clapham to the Unicorn at Stones-end in

hours, performed the fame in little more than 3; after

which he was to have drove Mr. Chambers, a Corn.

factor, ina Wheel-barrow back to the Plough in 3 hours -

but having got es far as the Swan, where the road turns

off for Stockwell, he gave out, being unable to Proceed

turther. The wagers won aod left on this Occasion

amounted to a very considerable {um of money, Ibid. —.

This wonderful Hopper, I think, ought to be fent with the

forces on the expedstion with Don Carlos; from which he

ma, perbap:, return without the iacumbrance of a super-

flucus leg. wich he foems to have at present.

Tho. ©.iphaat won the wager, by running from White-

chappei Church to Rumford Turnpike in an bour and

§ mminutes; the greatest performance ever known by a

boy of his age. ‘The other boy loft by 4 minutes. Post

Boy. In an hour and 4 minutes, D. Fournal,

Sie Rich. Sh.riard died last night at his house at Pads

dington. Cour.

Tuespvay, Fane 15.

Yesterday the Marq. of Blandford with his Lady arri-

ved here, and will {peedily reside at his house, which is

fitcring up in Grosvenor-{quare. Pof? Boy.

vunday the R.H. L. Harrington k:ffed his Majesty’s

hand, on his being made one of the Principal Secretaries

of State. bid.

The Countess of Londonderry is arrived from St.

Christopher’s, with the Corpse of her Husband, who

was Capt. Gen. and Commander in chief of the Leeward

Ifiinds, Daily Sournal.

Yesterday one Fitz gerra'd, a Sollicitor, was commit-

ted into the custody of the Marshal, by the Court of

King’s Bench, for tally accuting Mr. Rob. Waddilove

and Mr. Nat. Gunter, 2 eminent Attornies; whoenter’d

into recognizance to prosecute him for wilful perjury. [4id.

A Gerteweman going in her chariot on durday in the

afrernoon from Low layton to Woodtord, was robbed by

a highway-man of halt a guinea, &c. He was observed

to go into the woods, where he was feiz’d, and com-

mitted to CheimstordGoal. He is said to be an Apprene

tice to an Uphoifterer in Lifhopfyare-street. bid.

This day John Huggins, Eig; was brought from New-

gate tu the King’s: Bench Bar at Westminster, when the f{pe-

cial verdict against him for the murder of Mr. Arne, who

dy’d in durance, by being over-burden’d with irons and

other extravagant hardships, was learnedly argu’d : upon

which it appear’d that a murder had been committed by

some-body; but whether cr no Mr. Huggins was guilty

of the fame, was the question then before the Court,

which beng a matter that required consideration, the

Court d.d not come to a determinaticn, fo that a farther

hearing thereof is, we hear, to be at Serjeant’s-inn hall

in Chancery-lane, before the 12 Judges. After which,

the Council for the prisoner mov’d, that Mr. Huggins

might lec admitted to bail; but the fame being opposed

by Mr. Attorney General, the Court did not grant it.

St. James's Even,

WEDWESDAY, Fune 17.

Sunday Night about 10. Mr. Stoneleyron, a master car-

penter in Ratcliff Highway was attack’d in Goodman’s

Fields, by one footpad, in a failor’s jacket, who came vp

to him with a knife in bis hand, {wearing he would cut

his throat if he cry’d out, and then rifled him of his

watch and 6s,in money. He had a ring upon one of his

fingers, which the villain obfrved, and some people ad-

vancing, he cut his finger ctf at the upper joint, and then

d-oppec his knife, and mace off. There is T. H. ina

cypher upon the hande of the knife Poff Boy.

Yeterday James Weft a Waterman was committed to

Newgate, on the Oath of Fliz. Lardan, for having carna

knowledge of her body, in a forcible manner. Courant

Mond. Tho. Mackworth, Ziq; was married to Mifé Ma-

nen

SL ORIN Tt on nme

year S

ns Pe ee oe

mer

AP npn 9 ne pene

i ee OQEEIONTT

et aS

via Reed, Daught. of Will.Reed of Durham, Esq: a for-

1600 |. Post Boy.

ay ~ gag’ Gen, Wade's heavy baggage is

arrived at the E, of Murray’s lodgings 10 Cannon-gate,

and his Excellency ison the road coming down. Cour. 1.

Fure 3. Friday about 11 in the forenoon, a buat faii'd

fom Haws for North-ferry with Wool-packs, &c. and

a sudden {quall of wind arising, the boat, being crowded

with fail, was run down at once; witredy the Skipper,

3 boat-men, and a boy, with 5 paffemgers, perished, 2

men, a woman, and a boy, got fafe on the other fide ;

but “tts said the woman is since dead. The corpse of

Mrs. Marg. Deans was interzed this day, aged 100 years,

Mr. Frazer, of Strichan, was admitted one of the Lords

of Council and Session. D. Poff.

Dublin, Fune~. Frid. dicd of amalignant fever Pierce

Brener Haflet, Efg; Counféllor at Law: and on sunday

of the fame diftemp-r, Mr. James Webb, a noted Attor-

ney. Post Boy, 13. )

Fune 6. The Rev, Dr. Delany is made Chancellor of

St. Patrick’s in the room of Dr. Ed. Synge, now Bishop

ot Clonfert, who was consecrated last sunday. Dean

Sawbridge is tobe trie’ next monday. D. Fourzal.

Boston in Now-England, May 4. The following Adver-

tisement hath been published here, sign’d by the select

men of this Town, viz. We being informed, that many

persons belonging to the adjacent Towns iatend to come

into this Town, to have the {mall-pox inoculated upon

them, which, we apprehend, wou'd be much damage to

this place; this is therefore to give notice, that if any

person or persons, not belonging to this Town, shall pre-

fume te come into — the aforesaid occasion, he or

they shall be prosecuted*according to law. Cour. 12.

Philadelphia, Apr. 30. On the 2qth, between 19 and

11 at night the greatest fire happened in this city, that

ever has been known here. It began in a store among

rigging. The lofs sustained amounts to several thousand

pounds. Poff Boy, 13.

From the Pegasus in Grub firees.

The Society being informed, that Mr. Kiruaus, re-

fenting the disapppointment in not being chosen their

Book-feller in April last, had from that time spoken very

difrefpe@tfully of them; and was even the Author of the

Letter published against them in the Daily Fournal, May

23. of which some notice was taken in theirs, N® 21.

they ordered the following short remonstrance to be

drawn up, as the fenie of this learned Body.

That they thought that their whole condu& in relati-

on to thar election had been very much to the honour

of Mr. Kirteus; and for this they appealed to their Four.

nals, N° 4 and 15; from the latter of which it will

appear, that the very Person who opposed that Gentle-

man’s being elected their Book-feller, at the same time

declar’d, that he ought to be chosen a Member. They

very much approve his having lately cleared his Lite-

ratory of Books of Antiquities, more proper for a Dutch

Genius; and retaining only such as relate to Biography,

secret History, natural Philosophy, and Poetry, fub-

jets much more suitable to the brigbtness of his parts.

They desire him, whenever he cafts his eyes upon the

Tides of these, not much to regard the printed names ;

but to reflect and call to mind the real Authors, which

would continually put him in mind of his obligations to

our Society. That he would find all his wealth and re-

putation in the world were originally owing to his ac-

quaintance with our Members, who were still willing to

contribute to the advancement of both,

Tue following Copy of verses is taken from the Car-

mina Ouadragefimalia; to which a Translation is fub-

joined by an unknown hand

An Caufz fint fibi invicem Caufx? Aff.

Authore invito, tenues mandare libellos

Furtivis folicus Bibliopola typis,

Ultores pueras deceptus fraude maligna

Senfit ab excuffo miffus in aftra fago.

Nec fatis hoc : mensa late porrectus ecerna

Supplicium rigidz fert puerile {cholzx :

Jam virge impatiens pueris convitia funds

Vicinique crepat jurgia nota For).

Flagra minas mifero extorquent repetita; minafque

Quo magis ingeminat, vapulat ille magis.

Whether causes can he mutual? They may.

M UCH had Pyratic Mun by pamphlets got :

For print he would, if Authors would, or not.

By vengeful boys decoy’d, he takes ten flights

From blanket, loftier than from Grub-street hights.

Nay more : stretch’d out at length on maple board,

Feels the sharp pains in rigid schools abhorr’d.

Impatient of the rod, ‘ Ye dogs uncivil,

€ cries, * by — I'll fue you to the Devil.

Blows urge his threats, his threats more lashes bring:

The more Mun raves, the more these hornets sting.

ting late porrecius, by firetched out at length. But Mr.

had afiured him, that the Patient was ffretch’d ows at

length, as well as in bredth; and therefore the Tranfla-

tor, as wellas the Author, might chute which he piealed.

Mr. J. M.S

e catechized on his one Epiftie to

Mr. Pore.

HAT makes you write at this cdd rate?

Why, Sir, it is to imitate.

What makes you steal and trifie fo ?

Why : ’tis to do, as others do.

But there’s no meaning to be seen!

Why, that’s the very thing I mean.

Extempore Verifes occasioned by a late Sermon.

AM sila: chief of Cities, raise thy head ;

iXecail the Actions, of the Patriot dead.

What wou'd your great, your good Foreefathers fay,

When their degenerate Sons their fears betray ?

No fervile awe forfook fair Freedom’s Caule ;

Their Lives fhone torth, a pattern of their Laws,

Religion bore not then an empty Name:

True to their God, their praét:ce was their fame:

And when for Blessings taught their Thanks to give,

No sleepy Zealots pais’d their negative.

Whereas it has been reported, that a certain Wit received

a damage from a match at Cudgel-paying, we are in-

formed that the [aid report is utierly false, the [aid Wit

being perfeéily found and unhurt, and never flirring from

his iedging ali that day. And we also hear, that if the

said Wit will please but to signify where he lodges, or may

be found, a certain Gentleman will wait upon him, and if

it ts untrue, ach bis Pardon.

FOREIGN NEWS.

Tuurspay, Fune It.

Yesterday arrived the \lail from France.

Paris, Fune 17. N.S. The King’s pitture, just finish-

ed by M. Rigault, was exposed lait week in the Hall of

audience at Versailles. It is one ot that celebrated Pain-

ter’s Master pieces: and is to be fent back hither to M,

Drevet, to engrave a Print from it; and M. Rigault is to

make 2 copies, 1 of which is to be fent to the King of

Spain. The 2 great bells, weighing 40,-0% pounds each,

and 4 lesser, caft here for the King of Portugal, have

been tound to be very harmonious, and free from defect.

The 2 big ones are 12 foot and baif high. Comr.

Verseilies, Fuxe 15. The King has given the Count de

St. Maure, the «ffice of Vice-Admiral of the Levant ;

and nominated M. de la Roche-Allar:, Lieutenant Gene-

ra} of thenavy. off Boy.

Lisbon, May tr. Ic is aivised from Tetuyan, that the

people of the kingdom of Sus having refuted to acknow-

ledge King Muley Abdallah for their sovereign, that

Prince had fent against them an army of 49,000 men, at

the head of which he intended to put hunfuif the bee

ginning of next month, Daily Pof.

Rome, May24. The sacred Colleye have received ad-

vice, that the late Earthquake, which was felt on the

12th, had done much damage in the Towns of Nercia,

[Norcia] Aquila, Cafcia, Virfa, Matrica, Monteleone ;

that there had been 3 fhecks at Norcia, the lait of which

was fo violent that ail the houses were thrown down,

excepting the Town house and 2 Convents. The Che-

valier de St George is preparing to fet out on the27th

to go and pass part of the jummer at Albano, 16:4. —~

May 27. We learn that the Town of Sulmone his been

entirely destroyed by an Earthquake. St. /ames’s Even.

Fripay, fune i2.

Rome, May 27. We hear ‘rom Naples, that the blood

of the glorious St, Gennaro, which uled to be conyealed

and only liquified upon its being brought before the

Saint’s head, was found i:quified in the place where it’s

kept, which has put the whole kingdoin into a great

confternation; such an accident being {upposed to por-

tend some dire event. Ibid.

Satrurpbay, Fune 13,

Florence, May 27. It was doubted at Genoa, whether

the Corsicans would return to their duty, because they

seem more inclined to chinge Matters; fo that it is to

be feared they have secret assurances of Protection trom

some Power or other. Courant.

Monpay, Fune i5.

On faturday arrived 2 Patek and 1 Holland Mail; and

| yesterday 1 from France, and 1 from Flanders.

From the Camp at Muibburg, June 8. The Kings

Mr. Bavius objected against the impropriety of tranfla-

Mavius vindicated it, by saying, that one of the Agents

of Poland and Prussia have bee’ employed till now, id

the general review of the army, with great satisfaction

and his Prussian Majesty was much surprized, that his

Polith Majesty could bring fo many fine T:oops into

the field; me have performed their exercises with as

much dexterity as the most veteran soldiers. It is aftured,

that after the raising of this Camp,. 12,000 men of the

Saxon Troops will march into the Empire, for the Em-

perot’s service. D. Fourn.

Hambourg, Fune 16. Letters from Mecklembourg con-

firm the arrival of D, Cha. Leopold of Mecklembourg

in his dominions, He landed the 8th at Ribniiz, wene

to Swerin, and took up his lodging in the ¢astle. He

fent afterwards to Domitz for his Chief Ministers and

his Chancery, (who went to him) haviog resolved to

make Swerin the place of his residence: and he has

given orders for the raisinga Troop of Life-guards. We

are persuaded this Prince would not have returned inte

his dominions, had be not been well assured, that he

might contiaue there in safety. What gives us reason

to form this judgment is, that he did rot go from Dant-

zick, till after the return of ‘an express he had fent to

Moicow. They write from Petersburg, that the Admi-

ralty had received orders to fit out 9 men of war, 9

fregates, and some gallies, on board of which troops were .

to be embarked. D, Poff. 7

Vienna, Fune 7. Two Expresses gre jult arrived, t

from Paris, and the other trom Brussels, A rumour is

{pred, that they have brought new proposals on the pare

of the Allies of Seville for an amicable accommodation.

Nevertheless the Generals, who are to command in Ita-

ly, are ordered to repair thither forthwith; and Gen.

Philippi, one of them, is to go by Turin, to execute a

Commission there on the part of the Emperor. My Ls

Waldegrave has taken his leave, in order to return to

London. The extraordinary armaments are still carried

on, with as much vigour as ever, throughout the Here-

ditary Dominioas.

Tugsvay, June 16.

This day arrived the Mails from Holland, Fratice, and

Flanders.

Hague, Funero. N.S. We cannot yet resolve the

grand question, which keeps all Europe in fuipence 5

namely, what answer the Emperor will make to the last

propoials of the Allies of Seville. Letter from | aris and

London agree, that all things are at a stand til the re-

turn of the Expresses feat to Vienna, which is impati-

ently expected. Mean time Count Coningfek has frequent

Conterences with the Cardinel de Ficury; and as he is an

old stager in the affairs of politicks, it is not doubted

but he is in the secret of the Negotiation, and tvi!! con-

duct things to the point the Emperor hasin view; which

is the more probable, because the Cardinal and anocher

prime Minister wish it as heartily as his Imperial Maje-

ity himself, and are back’d herein by this state, which

would be very loth to engage in 2 War, Not-

withstanding what the News Papers have said of the

King of Sardinia’s acceding to the Treaty of Sevilie; we

are well affur’d, that Prince has declar’d he will remain

Neuter : But at the same time, he has given the Most Chri-

ftian King to understand, that if he should have occasion to

fend any Troops thro’ his Territories, he «vi!l not refuse

them passage upon dome conditions. Ss. Zames’s Even,

WEDNESDAY, Fane 17.

Amsterdam, Fune io. Thursday last, betimes in the

| morning, it was observed by the popu'ace, that 16 Cof-

fins were carried ‘from their City-house, or Guildhall:

which Coffias were supposed to contain Bodies that, had

been privately executed for Sodomy, of the richer fore

of people; and that morning about 29 persons, of mean

extraction, were to have been publickly executed for the

like Crime; but the populace rising im arms, and de-

| manding publick execution of the rich as well as of the

poor, (there then being about 300 of all Ranks in prison

in that City, accused of thar crime, and some of them of

great Note and Substance) the Magstrates were ob'ig’d to

send to the Hague for afliftance to quell this Mob, which

wes very outragious; upon which 1000 Soluirs were

fentro their afliitance. Daily Fournal.

Prices of Goods at Bear Key on Monday.

per Quarter per Quartet

Wheat == 20 to 28 Hog Peas —— 12 fo 15

Rye —— 12 to 13 Roiling Peas——20 to 2§

Barley ———-12 to 13 Pale Male —16 to 215

Oats 8 to 12 Brown Malr— 15 to 18

Horse Beans 18 to 2 Tares ————22 to 24

Coals 22s. to 2 $s. per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 — 20s. to 29s. per Hundred.

Hops 17:9 — 308. to 608. per Hundred,

Rape Secd 131. to 161. per Lat, -

The Course of the Exchange.

Amsterdam 34 6 Madrid 42 sthsat half

Ditto at Sight 34 3 Bilboa 42 1 8th

Rotterdam 34 7 Leghorn ¢1 3 8thsai half

Antwerp 35 Genoa $4 1 half

Hamburgh 33 1 sth Venice 49

Parisat Sight 32 5 Sths Lisbon ¢s.6d.1 half a3 Sths

Bourdeaux at fight 32 1 half | Porto ss. 5d. 1 halfa3 Sths

Cadiz 42 1 halt } Dublin 1

On Tuesday Stocks were

South-Sea 103 5 8ths. South Sca Annuity 106

s 8ths, Bank 141 1 4th. India 190, 190 : 4ths.

Three per Cent. Annpity 96 t 4th. Niditon Bayk 107.

African 46. York Buildings17. Royal Assurance(100l.

paidin) 94 1 4th. Londonditto (131. paid in) 12 1 8th.

Bank Circulation 71, 15s. South Sea Bonds 41. 135.

India ditto 5 1. 4s. English Copper 3/. 158. Welch

ditto 11.125.

To the Worthy Livery-Mewn of the

City of LONDON.

Gentlemen,

b ey Votre and Interest are humbly de-

fired for

HENRY RAPER, Ej;

Citizen and Painter-Stainer ;

AN D

JAMES CHAMBERS, Ef,

Citizen ard Gold{mith ;

To be Suerirrs of this City and County of Middle-

fex, for the Year ensuing; who are the Two foremott

in the Lift of those Gentlemen that for many Years patt

have been nominated by several Lord Mayers to serve

that Office.

N.B. It bas been unxanimously resolved in Common-

Council, shat for the furure all sberiffs Fines shall be ap-

propriated ONLY towards bwilding @ NMANSION-

House for the Lord Mayor, fo much wanted to juppo.!

the Honour and Dignity of this Great City.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

Specdily wiil be published,

Nu MBER II.

[To be continued. ]}

N AUTHOR to be LETT: Being a

History of the past and prevent Transactions of the

Members of the Bathos : In which will be fully and

faithfully delineated the charaéter of that modest, inge-

nious, tall, young Man Jemmy Moore Smytne. By

Ifcariot Hackney.

We, being neither Scholars, Dolfors, mor Divines, call

pur selves GFNTLEMEN; which fure no body will deny, be-

cause one of us is the Son of aFoorman, One, &c.

Grub street Journal, N° 19.

N. B. Soon after will also be pubished, The Gentle-

men of the Danciad. APoem. By Mr. Savage, with

a Preface. _

Printed for L. Gilliver, at Homei’s Head against Sr.

Dunstan’s Church, Fleet-street,

Jut published,

Printed on a superfine Paper, in two Volumes in Quarto,

SOME OBSERVATION S made in travelling

- through France, Italy, &ce im the Yeats 1720, 1721 and

1722: Containing a large and particular Account: ot the most ie-

nrarkable Curiotities in those Countries, as well such as relate

ro their Manners, Customs, religious Orders, Ceremonies, &c. as

likewise of their Architecture, Paintings, Sculpture, and other An-

tiquities, which are esteemed most worthy ot the Observation of

an Eny)ifh Traveller. With some fthort Remarks on the Air,

Soil, Productions, Trade, Manufactures of several Places, occafic-

nally inter{pei fed. By EDVARD WRIGHT, Esq; illustrated with

40 curious Drawings, design’d upon the Spot by the Author, and

engrav’d on Copper by the belt Hands.

Printed for Meflieurs Ward and Wickfteed in the Inner Tem-

ple Lane.

Jutt published,

HE Female PARSON: Or, Beau in the

Sudds. An Opera, a8 it is a€ted at the New Tleare

in the Hay-market. By Mr. Charles Coffey, Author of

the Beggar’s Weddin N

Printed for Fran, Cogan, at the Middle-Temple-gate in

Fleet-street, and Lawton Gillver over against St. Dun-

stan’s Church. Price one Shilling.

Where may be had,

The Amours of Philario and Olinda 3 or, the Intrigues

of Windsor: A gapuine History. Priceone Shilling. Also

An ESSAY founded on Arguments Natural and

Moral, proving the Immortaliry of the Soul, Translated

from the Original Manuferipr of the Archbishop of Cam-

bray. Price one Shilling.

This Day is publistd.

N Essay upon Poetry and Painting, with relation to

the Sacred and Protane History. With an Appendix

couce ning Obsceniry in Writing and Painting,

Ur v Ctura ocfis, '

DVabiturque Liccntia fampta pudenter.

Diice docendus adhuc quid cenfet amiculus:

Ut 11 Cacus iter monftrere velit.

By Charles Lamotte, D D,F.R.S. Member of the Socisty

of Antiquar.es, and Chaplain co his Grace the Duke of

Montague. Printed for F. Fayram, at the South Entrance

ot the Royal Exchange, and 7, Leake, Bookseller at Bath,

Just publ:shed,

WO EPISTLES to Mr. POPE concern-

ing the Authors of the Age. And the Me.chant;

on Trade, Navigation and Peace. esigned to give a

new but juit Idea, of the Pindaric Ode, and to shew the

Scripture Style ot che Prophets, highly proper for ic.

Dedicated to the Duke ot Chandos,

Both by the Author of the Universal Passion.

Printed tor Lawton Gilliver at Homer’s Head against St.

D.initan’s Church in Fleet-street.

Just published,

HE LAW agant BANKRUPTS: Ora

Treat:fe wherein the Statutes against Bankrupts are

explained by feve. al Cafes, Resolutions, Judgments, and

Decrees, both at Common-Law, and in Chancery. Toze-

ther with the Learning ot Declarations and Pleadings

relating thereunto. To which are likewise added, Forms

} and Directions tor Commissione:s, and Precedents fit for

the perufal of all Lawycrs, Mechants and ‘J radcfmen.

Sic utere tuis, wt alicna ron Ledas,

The fifth Edition To which is now added, An Ap-

pendix of all the Statutes relating to Bankrupts, to the

Year 1725. By Tho. Goodinge, Serjeant at Law. Printed

by E.and R. Nutt, and R.Gofling, (Assigns of Edward

Sayer, Esq;) for £. Cogan, at the Middle-Temple Gate

Flcet-street.

This Day is published,

The Third Edition, corrected, ado.n’d with a new Sett

of Cutts,

And the Efigies ot Mr. BU TLER,

Curiously engra ed by Mr. Vander Gucht, and beaut fully

piinted in one neat Pocket-Volume, in the fame Stile

vf Hudibras, ihe enti.e three Volumes of

H E Potihumous Works of Mr. SAMUEL BUT-

LER, Authorot Hudibras, Written in the Time of

the Grand Rebellion, and in the Reign of King CharksII.

Being a Colleétion of Satires, Speeches and Reflett.ons

upon those Times. Published from Original MSS. and

scarce and valuable Pieces formerly printed.

Printed by and for Richard Reily in Little Britain;

and fold by the Booksellers of London and Weftiminster.

Of whom may be had, just published,

PARALLELS of the Sounds and Syllables of the

FRENCH and ENGLISH Languages; or, the French

Pronunciation made easy to the English Learner Being

tics, by which Learners may of themselves, without the

Assistance of any Master, attain the true Pronunciation

of the French Tongue. A Work never bifo:e attempted.

Jut published,

T!! E LIFE of the Right Reverend Dr WHITE

KENNETT, late Lord Bishop of Peterborough; with

fevera! original Letters of the late Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr.

Tennison; the lace Earl of Sunderland; Bishop Kennets, &c. and

some curious. original Papers and Records, never beivre published,

And also

The Foreigner’s Guide: Or, a necessary and instruGive Com-

panion, both for the Foreigner and Natives in thei Four through

the Cities of London and Westminster. Giving,

1ft. A general Description of rhefe two Cities, with an Account

of their respective Government.

adly. A Description of the Royal Palaces, Noblemens Houses,

publick Butidings, Churches, Streets, Squares, and the most re-

markable Places in and near the tamous Metropolis: With an

Account of the Inns-ot Court, Royal Society, publick Walks, Di-

versions, remarkable Days, Court Days, Pott D ys. And,

gdly. A Description of the several villages in the Neighbour-

hood; as Chelsea, Kensington, Richmond, Greenwich, Woolwich,

Hampttead; and also others more remote, viz. Hampron-Court,

Windsor, Oxford, Cambridge, Blenheim, New-Market Horse

Races, Epsom, Tunbridge, Bath. And, :

rathly. An Account ot the Rates of Coaches, Watermen; and

also the Rates ot PoR Horses; with the Reads to Dover and

Harwich. : a p "

Very useful and entertaining both to Foreigner and Native, and

done into English and French.

Where may be had,

LOVE LETTERS on all Occasions, lately passed benween

Persons of DiftinG@ion. Colleé&ted by Mrs. Eiiza. Haywood,

Pleasure with Sorrow, Peace with War allay‘d,

Liberty fetier’d, Hope by Fear dismay’d ;

Imbitter’d Honey, Earnest mix’d with Play,

Are, Love! the Emblems of thy fov’reign ®way.

Printed for, and fold by Francis Cogan, at che Middle.Temple

Gace in Fleee-street.

| not omty the books but Cihaptis of ti

a certain easy and speedy Methou fuited to all Capaci- |

; Just. published.

P ROPOSALS for Priniing by Subscription a

beautitul and correct Edition of ROBERTI

S- EPHANI Thefaurus Lingue Latine.

with the best Editions of the Claitics, the Referenc.s ad-

Compared

justed and supplied by J. MARIYN

the whole corvetted and

R. RUSSEL, M.A.

The great Uletuin-ts of this Woik ha:ing vendcer'd it

fearce (tho’ it has patled four Impretiions) tai the best

Edition is now told for at icatt fisteen Pounds, ic is pre-

fumed that the Ke-printing of i., wi i thee imp. ovements

will be very acceptable to ail tue 1 earned in Europe :

This Wok .s to be printed trom the iaft Ki.tion

(printed at Lyons, containiny 653 Sheets, divided into four

Tomes) and will be rendered much more .iefuls vy ¢ une

) Proic Auiiors,

and even the Lines of the Poets; wihi.cii be.ng ad apted

to the improved i:ditions ot the Classics, wedout not will

be aS agreeable io the Studious, as lave: tous co ine Editors,

It will be printed in the fame Mann:r, and on as good

Paper, as the Specia en annexed to the : ropofals,

The Pricesto Subscribe:s will be fix Guineas a Sett in

Sheets; only one to be paid down, twoon the Delivery

of the first Volume (which will contain about 170 Sheets)

and one more for each of the other three Volumes

Some Copics will be p.inted ona larger Paper for the

Curious, at nine Guineas a Sete in Sacets; two to be paid

down, two for the first Volume, two for the second, onz

fo the third, and two for the lait.

As soon as 200 are subscribed for, the Work shall be

pat to Press,

The Names and Titles of the Subscribers will ba pre-

fixed to the firit Volume,

When the Subitr:ption is closed, the Price will be rais

fed to eight Guineas for the tmall Paper, and twelve the

Large,

Keccipts for the Subscription-Money are signed by all

the Proprietors, which they will pay into the Hands of

Francis Chifd, Eig; Alderman, and return it to the Sudferi-

bers by Chiz/fmas next, if the.e is not fuffc:ent Encouis 2.

ment to procced.

Subscriptions are taken in by the Fd'tors; and 7 Rat-

fey, at the Dove in Pater-Noffer Row; A Vandenisoeck, at

Virgil's Head, over-agai the New Church in the Strand;

F, Cogan, at the Middte-emple-Gate, Fleet-S reet; and by

Clif Printers, S, Palmer and 7, H-¢gonfon, in Bartholomews

ofe,

J > F.R.S. and

reviled from the Press by

BOOKS printed and fold by Jon Brotherton ar the

Biole n Cuini ili.

Life of Oliver Cromwil,8vo.

Colleétion of Nove!s, r2mo

Gordon’s “cog. Grammar,

Boyer’s Dictionary in 4qto,

6 Vol. or 8.0

D’Ano's Tales of the Fairies, | Blais’s Sermous, ¢ Vol. 8vo,

3 Vol 12m0. Shakespear’s lays.

Addiiun s Works, 4 Vol,

Lockyer’s Trade to India

Abelard’s Letteis

Garti’s Ovid, 2 Vol

Plutarch’s Lises, 8 Vel

Don Quixot, 4 Vol.

Free Thoughts on Religion.

Pilgrin’s Progress in 8vo,

with Cuts, 2 Vol,

Speétators, § Vol.

Piideanx Conn: tion, 4 Vol.

Musical Mife 4 Vo!. Svo.

The Dancinz Matter, by Mr. } Guardians, 2 Vol.

Folin Egix, 4to. Ovid's Eriftles

Boyer’s Telemachus, 12mo | Dryden’s Virgil.

Gay’s Fables, Svo.

This Day is published,

(Price Four Pence,)

A General Huiitory cf Exccu ions, Numb. IV.

(To be continued.)

Ontaining an Account of the Lives and Actions o-

the two tollowing Malctaétors cx cuted at Tyburn

the first Infant, vz. John Doyle, a fuccetstul Highway-

man, and Jolin Young, a barba-ous Robb:r. Also of fix

Maleta¢tor try’d and condemn’‘d atthe Lent Assizes, before

the fate Lo-d Chi.t Baron Pengelly, and Mr. Justice Fore

tefcue Al nd, and executed at Hearvytree Gallowa neat

Exeter, two of them protesting their Innocefice to the lat.

Printed by R Newton, at St. Jolin’s-Gate, and told

by the Booksellers in Town and Country.

Where may be had, Price 4d each. me

Numb. I. containing the Life of Everett, a noted High

wayman, of Goodburn, a Poet, and of two otlicr Male

factors executed at the same Time.

Numb. Il. containyng an Account of five Malefattors,

and a Description ox a large Gang of Thieves and Chats,

which infeft at Times all parts of the Kingdom, of groit

Use to Officers of Parishes, and private Persons, for guard-

ing against and detc€ting the said Rogues

Numb. It, Containing an ample Relation of the noted

Villain James Dalton, and of his Robberies for 20 years.

po Hugh Houghton the Bristol Mail Robber 3 and three

others. ;

Note, This Work meeting with Encouragement will

be continued every Sessions, and the Numbers regula:ly

published soon after the Execution, and will contain an

Account of the Criminals executed aad transported

throughout Fneland, in order to make a compleat Vo-

lume at the Year’s End, when a general Index will be

given for that Purpose.

LONDON: Printed for Capt. Gulliver and F. Cogan near the Temple, Mr. Jackson in Pall-Mall, and J. Brotherton near the Exchange, and Sold by J. Roberts in Warwick-Lane, where Letters and Advertisements, &c. are taken in.

[Price Two Pence.]

