The Grub-street Journal.

Thursday, JU** 2, 1730.

The Lawyer for lac’d Coat the Robe does

quit 5

He grows a Mad-man, and then turns a

Wit, Garth’s Dispenf. Cant. IV.

Dr. J. M——re to Mr, J. Mo

Tejiel and Morter in Abchurch lane, Fune 27.

Corfen Jemev,

aeeAOtwithfanding you have so far estranged

your selfe trom our famely, not only to

have left ort al dutiful correspondence

wth me, your own Uncle by the Fa-

ther’s fide, but to have renounced our

very Name, and taken to you a strange

one; yet in your present miserable ci

cumftinces I hoid my ieife bound, both as a Christian and

asa Physitian, to take fume care of you. I find by the

public advertisements, that you areabf nied from our Re-

jations, tor tear of fal'ing into the hands of a Deétor, |

shou'd not blame you, Cofen M—re, for flying from

any Door, had I reard of you ct my Shop in Aochurch-

lane: and truly I have canfe to take it ih of our Kins-

tolke, thit thry should thnk of putting you to any Phy-

fitian but my selfe. Pray, what cantuat Doétor co, but

(like all the rest of his fraternity) tru in his learning, and

fo forth? Now I, Cofen James, trust not in vain learn-

ing, but in the blefling of God. Is any man fo blind, fo

irreligious, fo unchriftian, 1s to deny that 1, with the

biefling of God, can do a thousand times more than any

Gradual Phylitian without it? Cofen, Cofen, you are

in the wrong to {peak (as | hear youdo in ove of your

poems) of a Quack, as a terme of reproach. Your Uncle isno Gradue| Physitian, no more was your great Uncle a Gradual Physitian, but of a more elevated rank than

to mount by degrees. Was his stage, do you think, of

Jefs dignity than that on which you have of late (as conspicuovfly, tho’ not fo fortunately) attempted to show

your selfe ? Was he ever his own Merry Andrew, as you

are; and delivered the bills with his own hands, as you

were notoriously known to éo but t’other cay ? Cali Quack,

fas you please, Cofen, but let me tel! you, I am as well

reputed in my Lane, as you at your Tavern, by men as

well borne, of as honest cara@ter, and better pay-maiters,*

than your selfe. Every morning I rife, I rife worth ten

thousand pounds, Cofern: and had you thought fit not

to misbehave toward me, you might have had more good Uncles than one.

But to wave this matrer, as I was saying, I was sorry

to hear Cofen James was fallen into this condition. I

ever fear'd it would come to this, since he hearded with

Witts. Indecd, when they brage’d of his witts and his

verses, | hop’d in God it was not true. I] remember

trom his youth he was given to fibing and te/ling tales

about ver/is. When your Father and | join’d to put you

toa great {chool, remember that when they put you ep

on versefying, you had fo little talents tor ic, that you

got the lesser boys to do your exercise: end once,

when you brought Dr. Frienp about three hundred

verses, he was fo durprifed at your parts, thot he asked,

how long you was making them? Youanfwered, in half

an hour ; and ftoodtoitlikeaGentieman. °Tis but t’other

day, that a Witt, as I hear, gave you the use of halt a do-

zen verses ; and, Cofen, you p:inted (or fuflered to be

printed) without gain-saying in advertisements, that he

had ftoln them trom you. Truly, Cofen, wien a man

steals, he should steal more wilely ; and not bresk one of

God’s Commandments for suchtr:.fh as Poetry. Besides, let

me tell you, Cofen, that of alithe things that can be ftole,

great or {mall, the hardest to fleal are the gifts of God:

and you might as well pretend to steal my skill in Worms

and Physic, if I may Parvis componere mazna, as that

man’s knack in Poetry. From all this, I wus ftili in hopes

you would never come to be a oct, but live with your

Relations, fear God, and study the Law. A’as! alas! all

these hopes were ovir, when you writ a Piey, and called

your feife Efg; both at a time, You did not, ail at once,

seem to forget your Father, or the hou/e of your Father ;

for you mace the Heroof your said Piay a Footman. But

from that hour, Cofen, you never vouchiated to look

into Abchurchelane.

Alas ! poor Cofen James, 1 am iorry you have

ftili 10 much oceation for the Uncle you defpie. Few,

very few, I might fay, none but my fei, can give

you redress. Does the Cork-flreet Woctor pret. nd

a Cure? First let him know the cause. I dfy him

and ali his frarernity to tell methat: bat, for ence | will

tell them the Ceufe is Wivims Let ‘cm not deceive you,

Coten, it is a Worm, a large Worm, nay, porhaps, many

Worms in your head. Your heady! diy, Cofen, when you

was a boy at school, produced nothing but Lice and

Scabs ; and when you g:ew aman, nothing but Worms.

Let not this seem incredib'e: for tho’ you cannot fee a Head,

you can a Nutt, where one large maggot has eaten up the

whole kernel. Just such is your cele 5 and whoever tells

you otherwise, flatters you. It is well known, this is

my province, nor can any other Dodétor conrelt it with

me: witness a thousand undeniable certificates, which would

be too long tor this Paper, tho’ probsbly tome of them

may be found at the end of it: as what Paper is nor fui

of them? fc shall fiffice to mention my Udparaiciied iuc-

cefs, when several years ago i was tent for to Worme the

Witts at Byscon’s: many of which received the greatctt

benefit by ine, tho’ they were fo ungratcfal es to deny

ic themselves ; but justice was done me, for the Worms

were owned by al their relations and acqua't ance,

The brain, Cofen, is divided into three cels or ven

tricles: one for the imigination, one tor the memory;

and one tor the judement. Seether greatSpaaiih Phytitan

Von Fobu de Muart?s Exaizer des lngenos. Yhe.atl of

these venrricles I fiali not ipeak of in your cale, it beng

Certainly too imail tobe of any consequence in the cure:

and that tor which you your felte never bad aay con-

cern. The ventricle tor memory, I am willing to think,

may be larger, notwithstanding the Proverb, thar Witts

have a fimail one ; because another Proverb fays, i ouche

to be large in peope po fleffed of another of your qua::ti-

cations. But the third ventricle, I will venture io fay,

is totally filed with Worms 5 or perhaps, as I fad be-

fore, ose hug? Worm. which, for want of a name, I

must call a Dragon Conurdrum.

Having now shewn you the cause, I will give you

some hits for a Cure. You may apprehend the fe-

verity of a Stranger, fo trust the tenderness of a Kinf-

man; who wiil first attempc the molt gentle reme-

dies, and not proceed to the more powerful, unless

compeliced by the obstinacy of the Worm, er your

selfe. First, we shall ule fumigation to open the pores,

and soften and facilitate che passages. FT know my

Cofen’s confiitution pertectiy wel: mo man is more

easily put into a sweat by mere fight, o: hold.rg up, of

a sword, or acudgel = Pevnaps this etlect may proceed

even to liquifadiion: in which cafe, we may be content

with the gentler remedy fumigatio:, without the roucher

of fuftigation. Certain maladies are driven awzy one'y

by trights. Thus agues have trembled and fled; and many

Witts, thought desperate, have been recovercd in ike man-

ner. Some, I know, have been of opinion, that the moi-

{ture of these Worms, which we cal! Witt worms, are

much of the nature of the citing of mad dogs; which

makes the affi:ted follow ther nofes cire@ly, and f 2p

at every body they meet. This fort are known by one

efteét they usually produce tn Patients, in females efpe-

cially, and in men most iike females (of which my Co.

fen James appears to be by his very make ana formation.)

This symptom 19 a foul mouth, andloud darking: for this

I woud ule immerfion (han which, nothing 1s edterved

to be more prevalent,) either fudicn and total, lke the

Cold Bath, as in the cafe ot the doys; orgentle and gradual,

as in the convenient vehicle of the ducking-stool, as in

the cafe of the Ladies. There is to another external ap

puc.tion, which seems, indeed, the directelt ot al, and

makes the neateft approach to the feat of the disorder,

I mean by the Nofe. Moderate tweaking may precece;

then a little twilting; or tinally, when the pait 1s used to

handling, if need be, tagging and puuing pretty luftily.

Ina word ulng all means, ¢i her to fouucirte, or force the

Worm from its ulurped thron- the head. to restore it to

its true masters, the reason anu uaderiianding. Wut, dear

Cofen, to conclud»; if avy ot the vent-er ways will do,

far be it trom us to process, either to chs cr fu/ligacion,

the last of remedies. J) you wii : pair to iny Saop,

and fairly surrender yourse f, welland pooc: if nt, (for

all your old trick of changing you: lodging and ablconde

ing) which is as well known to meas al your other be-

nefactors, I believe, Cofen, you will one day be catched,

and have iome, if not all of these remedies adhi-

bited to you? So wishing you to thinkin time, I remaia

Your loving Uncle,

J. M—nre.

To Mr. Bavius Setretary to the Society of Grub-street.}

SIR, AF

Y OUR jut warmth for restoring the true reading in

some of our Engith Poets, must needs be very

agreeable to every Lover of Criticism. Iwish you would

oblige the world more frequentiy, with your learned

emendationss a province which I have alway§ thought

belongs in a good measure to the Members of your illus

ftrious Society. It would be worth your while to col-

are all the most ancient editions, which are commonly

the bet. Who can make sense of the following passage

in Cuaucer’s House of Fame, B.1. gs it stands in Mr.

Usry’s edition.

But certainly n’ift I nevir

Where that it was, but well wift I

It was of Venus redily

This temp'e, for in purtreiture

I fiw anone right her figure

Nakid yfletyng in a f,

And allo on her hedde parde,

H_ r refy garland, white and redde,

<ind her comoe for to kembe her heddey

Her dovis, and dan Cupido.

But in that fearce and valuable edition empryuted by Wyl-

Laxton, the fende is clear,

lyam C

ot garlonves fnellpng as a mene,

unDalfo dping abour ber hede

Wer Dubegs, &c.

That the passage ought to be read thus may further ap=

pear by comparing it with the description of the statue

of Venus in the Knight’s tale:

A Citriole in her right hand had fhe,

And on her hedde, full femely for to f{e;

A rote garlond, fresh and well smelling :

Above her hecde her dovis flittering:

Cetorne her ftou’d her foune Cupido.

If your learned Society approve of this reading, as I have

restored it, it will be a pleasure to

Cambridge, June, 23. Your humble frvant.

1730,

P.S. The learned author of the Grecnian Philosophy

has obuged the Publick with a curious print of Clare-hall,

drawn by the hand of Mr. Profeifor Beaptey. There

are two new thinys in this pi¢ture. Mr. Brapvey is cre-

ated M. DD. and tke (un is placed in the north.

LONDON.

C. Courant. E. P. The Evening Poff.

P, Poji- Boy. S.F.B. St. fames's Ev. Pof.

dD. r. Daily Pc ft. WwW. E Whiteball Even Pf,

D. Ff. Daily journal, L.E. London Evening Poff.

Important Articles omitted in our former.

A poor man dropped down dead at Charing-crois, E. P.

II. A boy tell off a bay-mow at Islington, and

was not kilkd. B. On mond, the Rev. Mr. Heibere

pailed in rev.cw, and bowed to his Majesty. C. - An

ederly woman drown d her self at Mil.-bank, P. S.7.E.

: -A boat ftav’d at Pillingfgate, but che paffen-

gers faved. E. P. A Porter m1 King’s-street going

to bed fell downdead. C. EP. S. 7. E.20.——Burn-

ham committed to Newgate tor picking a pocket of a

handkerchief’. C. 22. a fuldiers wene into the Pr -

vy Gardens to fight a duel, but were prevented. C, ?.—

4 Butcher in Westminster fell from bis horse, aud died.

P,2z.—~2 Carmen quirreiled, and one whipped out the

other’s cye. P.

&

Tuurspay, Juve 25.

Mond. Sir Rich. Hopkins was cholen Master of the

Fish-mongers Company, into which he had been newly

ctanf{luted irom that of the Cutlers. 4 £v.

~

ee oe TS ES

DOK IE reir,

~ ++ d SSSE ite.

>.

Tuesday Will. Coward, Eq; Citizen and Hatband-maker,

and yesterday Sir Will. Jolliff, Knt. Mercer, nominated

for Sheriffs, paidtheir fines. S.F.2. LE,

A great cause came on in the Court of King’s-Bench,

when a Woman, who was one of the principal Evi-

dences falliag in labour in Court, was carried to a Cof-

fee-house at Westminster-hal!-gate, and instantly delivered

of a child: which occasioned the deterring of the cause

‘cill next t-rm. E.P. S F.E. WE, —-—— It is feared

by one side, that the (udden delivery of this Woman, will

eccafien a milcarriage next term

A Cobler and a Yaylor, having been drinking and play-

ing at cards molt part of the night, quarreiled and fought

in Bartholoméw Cicfe 5 the latter was killed, and the tor

merranaway. E.P. S.7.E. WE, Yesterday th: Co-

roner’s Jury brought in their verai&t Man-slaughter. C.—

This verdsé# could not bz rivht, if 9 Taylors, as generally

allowed, are requisite ta make a Mou.

Yesterday Jonn Fuller, Esq; Diitiller, and Sir 1f.Shard,

Kat. Glover, were chof.a Sheriffs. C. &c. John Kirk,

Goldsmith, was chofin one of the Ale-Conne:s. Jérd.

Mond, the {Indian King, aid the Prince, and ¢ of the

chief his Court (ail Blacks) were introduced to his Ma-

jetty at Windsor: che K. hed a fcarlet Jacket on, but ail

the rest were naked, except an apron'about their middies,

and a horse’s rail hung down behind: their feces, shoui-

ders, &c. were painted with red, blue, and green ; they

had bows in their hends, and panted teahers on their

leads. A dinner, viz. a lee, thoulder, and loin of mut-

ton was provided at the Mermaid ot Winufor for them

The K, lies on a table ina Mankét: but the P. and the

Chicf of his Court lie on ‘he giound. F.P. 8. F. B.

iL. E.——The five Indian Kings, several times mentioned

in the News Papers, particularly those -f Tuesday, are on

@ sudden reduced to ont. = Tie appesrarce of thee Anert-

can Nobility, in the 3 colours of our 3 honouradle orders,

and with feathers on their heads is very remarkable; and

shews, that the desire of being dijlinguished by those co-

lours, and by feathers im caps is natural. His Majesty

seems to keep flate better than the European Princes ; bis

fcarlet Jack-t being a more illuftrious diftigion trom his

naked /ubjedts in the day, Aid at night he feorus to be

upon a level with them, and preserves bis superiority Ven

sn his ficep, by lying on a tatle ; whereby he is likewise

secure from all Béd-tefler-Plets. ;

Mond, Will, Manwaring, F{y; was married to Miss

Sophia-Anne Northmore, a young Lady of 20,005].

fortune. P.

Tuefd night 2 Bailiffs coming from Hampstead were

robbed by 3 Foot-pads, of 2 watches, a mourning ring,

11s. 6d. and some writs. The ring and writs they

desired again: but one of the Rogues made answer, ©]

© have no remorfe of conscience, when 1 play at Rob-

€ thief. Ibid.

Mond. one Jones was committed to Newzate, for

committing rapzs on : children near Cow-cross, one deat

and dumb, the other blind, the eldest not 12 years od,

Ibid. This Gentlemar seems to have had avery pecit-

liar taste, by which he wasamébitious to distinguish hunself.

Exeter, Fanezz. A Gent. of this Countiy is com-

mitted for poisoning his Wife ; a noted Attorney is fled

for beating amian to death; and this morn. a Fellow

beat out the brains of a mad woman in the Work-

house did.

Fripay, Furne 2%,

Yesterday-—————. Jack fon of South-pate, E’g; was mar.

ried to a Daughter of Sir John Tafh, Ant. with whom,

we hear, he has 10,000). fortune. D. P.

Wedn. the King’s and Queen’s own Royal Regiments

of horse, commanded by L. Vifc- Cobham, and rhe D. of

Argyle, passed in review before the Majesties, the

Prince, &e. Ibid.

We hear, that the reafen why Pet. Bluck made a vo.

Juntary confession of the murder done 2 years ago, was,

that being last fund. at the New Church in the Strand,

the Sermon concerning murder made such an impretiion

upon him, that immediately after Sermon he {ent tor a

Constable, &c. D.F. The Pof? Boy 25. tells as. that on

fat. morn. he met his fon (a Journey- man Taliow-chand-

ler) in the Strand; and told him he knew he wanted

money, and gave him 32 guineas, and Bank notes va-

lue 600 1.

SaTuRDAY, Zune 27,

Yesterday the Commiflioa coniiituting the D. of Dor-

fet, L. Lieutenant of Ireland, pafi:d the great ical.

Cc. D.P.

Weda. the Coroner’s Jury fate the 3d time on the bo-

dy of John Broughton, kuled by a cry in Ferter-lane,

and brought in the Dray-man guilty of Man-fliughter,

‘and fined the owner 10], Jbid

Yesterday at the Court of Common-P eas at Gu''¢hall

was tried an Action between Davis, a servant-naaic, and

——-e

Whaley, late Apprentice to Deputy R—--—~, on a pro-

mife of marriage; in which the Def. pleaded the statute

of Limitations. Several letters of his in 1722 and 1723

were produced, whereby the promise appeared. The

Def. produced a letter of hers, wherein fhe said, * He

* might get a wife with 1000]. and fhe hoped fhe mighr

* get a husband that would not be jealous of the D. or

* Mr. S.’? which, it was infifted, was a waver of the

promise. But the Jury gave her 1001. damages. D. P.

The Action was lsid for tocol. P.

The fame day was tried an Action on the Cafe be-

tween one Jelfs, Paint. and Mechin, Def. who had !aid

a wager, Jan. 22, 2728, with the former, that he did

not produce, on or before March 8, following a govfe

or gander, weigh'ng without feathers :7 |b. aad it ap-

pearcd that he did produce a goofc, March 1. which,

withour feathers, weighed 27!b. 20z. The Def. was

not able to contradiét the evidence ; but his Council in-

terrogating one of them, Whether it was not expressy

to be a goofe, he replied afer : and deing asked, whe-

ther it was not to be an Engith goof, and nor a fo-

reiyn one, answercd, No mention was made ot an Eng-

lith goofe, a foreign goofe, or a Taylor’s gooiz. [ct was

fiid tobe a Wiltthie goofe: and the verdict was for the

Plain*.. damages g 1. 1ys. which was the wazer laid,

D. F. I wonder the Coure!l (hb uid ack the latzir

question, st being generally slowed, that the Lugith are

the gveateft yeeic 19 Enrope.

Tu-fd. Rich. Lown ‘es, (9; wae maried toa Dauzh-

ter of Cha. Shales, Efg; a Baakcr in Lo:aoard &rces, a

fortune of 10,0¢0]. And on Wein, ——-—= Dudley,

Esq; to Miss Lemplter, a Lady avout 16, and 8 00],

fortune. P.

Yesterday i'r. Knapp, a Gentleman above “o, croffing

Smithfield, was rode over, and trampled ca by several

horses, fo that his ‘ife is in danger. 10s.

Wedn. the hon. Wil. King, Eig; wus fwora in Chan-

cery Cursitor for London and Midd'eféx, in the room of

his Brother the hon. Pet. King, E'qg; who, we hear, is

appointed Cursitor for Yorkshire and Wcilmorcland, D. P.

On thurfday at the reces at Hampstead, a Brandy-man

made a match with a Gentleman’s iervant mounted on

a fine Stone-horse, to run once round the course tor a

guinea: the mare proving horsey, all that the latter

could do, could not get before. £. P.

Monpay, Fune29.

Thurs. came on a cause in the Spiritual Court, held

in Weftm. Abbey before Dr. Pinfold as Judge, which has

been depending for 2 years, between Jane Bedford, Plaint.

servant to the Rev. Dr. Baker, one of the Prebends, and

Deborah Pearcehoui®, Def. on account of the latter fay-

ing, That Dr. Baker’s 3 maid-servants, were all his whores

Atter a creat many depositions aad arguments, it was

piven tor the Pvaint. with 10]. damage, aud the Def

ordered to do penance, or an affidavit ta be mace that

fhe was lunat’c, as her Council intifted fhe was. C —

There is xo Dr. Baker, Prebendary of Wejliminster, bute

there ts ove Dr. Baker who keeps several Cats,

Mr. Francis Roberts is appoited durveyor of houses

for London, Idd.

Laft week the R. H. L. Glenorchy was married to

Milfs Perthall, Grand-daugh'er to Sir Tho. Perfhail tn Stat-

fordthire, Bar. a youag Lady of great tertune D. P.

As was 2 few days since Col. Rich. Oaflow to Miss

Walton of Camberwell, a Lacy cf 2,000]. fortune, P.

On Wedn. Sir Wyndham Knatchbu'l, Bar. to Mrs. Har-

ris, 2 young Lady of to.copl. fortune. D.P.

Sat. the Marg.of Blandford, with bis Lady, fet cut for

Tyabridge-Wells. P.

vA Oxford, Fune 25. One of our principal Col'eges has

been cof late very much intested with Deis. Two of

them, on the foundation, were expelled last week ; and

another, a Gentleman-Commoner, this day. Another

Gentleman (ayainft whom no potitive Evidence cou'd be

brought) hod his degree deterred 2 years; one of which he

is to be close confined in the Colege, and to translate Mr.

Lustie’s »ethod with the Deijis. So caretul is the Uni-

verfity in yeneral of the manners and principles of its

members.

TuespDay, Fine 30.

Yesterday the &.H. L. Vite. Kilmurry was married

to the Lady Mary Shirley, youngest fiffer to the R. H.

E. Ferrers. D.P. DF.

Her Majesty at the t.me_of the late installation was

pleaded tz order $9 guineas to be mariberee amonott

the party of the zd Regiment of Foot-guarcs on dury

there. C. ;

Ye Cerday|the Governors ot the Cahrter-house met f 7

the election of a Governor, and made choice of the R.

H. Sir Rov. Raymond, Kot. P.

A large Ciock is making for tht m, of Prussia in

Fenchurch (treet, which is to have fine mulical chimes,

- "

-

and will cost 30001, A Tower is to be erested in Ber:

lin to put theeiame into. Idid.

We hear that Mr. Attorney and Sollicitor Gen. haye

reported, that @ Writ of error ought not to be granted

in favour of Col. Charteris. D. P.

Sat. a Brewers dray going down Holborn hill, and 4

Country Cart coming up, the tharps of the cart hit the

Dray-man such a blow on the stomach, that he died jp.

stantly. 4 Ev. P.

The fame day arrived at Dover from China, the En.

field, Capt.Rigby ; and the Monmouth, Capt. Kemift. 16,

Yesterday the Dutchess Dowager of Mariborouph

Grand-mother to the Marg. of Biandford, fet out for

Tunbridge. E. P.

Sund. night died Counsellor Herne at his Chambers jn

the King’s Bench Walks in the Temple. E P. S.F.E,

L. E.

Sat. night Tho. Haffil, a Sorter of Letters at the Gen.

Polt-otfice, was deteéted in taking a Bank note for <0},

out of a letter, and committed to Newgate. This of.

fence by a late A&t is made Felony. 4 Ev. P.

The fame night about 10 Tho. C:oud Esq; and Mr,

James Poole going in a chariot were robbed between

Pancrafs and Kentish Town, by a single Highwayman,

of their watchesand 6], E. P. WE.

Suns. moin. about 4a Person on horseback was at.

tacked near | loodyebridge by three Foot Pads, who tied

his hands and teet, and threw him into a ditch, havin

rubbid him, and pulled off his thoes and flockings. They

flung away the latcle and bridle, and turned the horse

loof. A bricklayer soon after fll ‘n’o their bands, whom

they bound and threw into the fame ditch. About 5, a

man happening to come by, fet them beth at liberty,

E.P.WE. 1 E. The S. James Ev. Pott, makes the firf

Person a Pasion 5 1 fuptpoje decause this happened on Sunday

morning about 4.

MWe hear, that Mr. Colly Cibber hath obtained leave to

fend down the young Company of Comedians from the

Theatre in Drury lane to Windsor. S$ F, E.

Mr. Tho, Woolton has been able to obtain the liberty

of the Ruics of the King’s Bench Piiton only. L. E.

WEDNESDAY, Fuly 1.

Yesterday the new church at Leptford was consecrated

by the L.B of London, C. D.P.

This day the Sessions begins at the Old Baily, where about

100 l’risoners are tobetried. C.

The Rev. Mr.Green was lately made Prebendary of the

Cathedral Church of Chichester. P.

We hear, that Emanuei Ruffle), committed to Newgate

a monday last, for Sodomitical ’ra¢tices, has impeach’d

{everalof his wretched Accomplices, some of whom have

been taken up. It is {aid the Gang contifisof between 3

and 4co. 11d. :

The R. Hon, Charles E. of Tankerviile, is appuinted

one of the Gentlemenot his Majesty’s Bed-chamber. D.P.

Thursday the Rev. Mr. Arthur Bedford, presented to the

King and Queen his learned and laborious Work, intituled,

The Scripture Chronology d.mozftrated by Af}tonomical Cal-

culations: and on the day fo'lowing to his Royal Highness

the Prince; which they all received very graciously. bid,

Yefle:day was heard before Dr. Sayer, Commissary to

the B.of Winchester, the cause about the right of chuiing

Church-wardens in the Parish of S. Saviour’s Southwark,

whether it wus vetted in alcle& veltry, or the parishoners

at large; and it was declared to be in the latter, they having

a natura! rizhr, as also a particular Act of Parliament made

the 3d of Elen. VIII. and the Parish wardens were ace

cordingly fwernin. D. F.

Ail persons who have sustained lofles by the Spaniards, are

to apply to Edward Greenly, Efg; at Doétors Commons,

every Tu.f Wedn. Tharf. and Frid, and to carry their do-

cuments with them, in order to make proof of their lofles.

idid.

Monday Evening betwixt 9 and 10 Mr. Sandford a Gar-

dener at Clapton, was robbed by 5 Poot Pads, of § s-

his hat, wig, &c. They bruised his head and face in a molt

inhuman manner; then bound, and threw him into a

ditch, where he lay two hours. He now keeps his bed,

and isdangerously i!], Four of the Villains were for mur-

dering him; but at the earncft persuasion of the <th they

fparedhislite. It is thought they were Journey-men Wea-

vers. sbitd.

Edinburgh. Fune 28. Mond. the Lords of the Justi-

ciiry continued the process against Mr, Elphingiton mi

mond. 7 night : and after p'eadings oa the Trial ot a Ser-

geant and 3 Soldiers for killing a man at the Lime-kilns

ina mob, the Jury brought in their verdit, Not proved.—

Thurs. night 17 anchors of Lrandy were seized on the

Links of Leith. C. &c. 25.

Fune 23. We hear that some days ago More, the

ring-leader of a notorious gang of Thieves wes appre-

hended at Whitburn, Wedn. night 42 anchors of

~~

°y

brandy, and on fat. 18 were seized at the Weems, C. [

&e. 30.

Glasgow, Fune ts. Laft week we had an account from

Port Glasgow, that one Mr. Whiteman, Ciesk to Col-

leétor Waiker, having supped with his Landlady,. told

her, that he behoved to have foine stout Fellows to {it

up the night with him 5 for at such an hour and minute,

he was either to die, or be carried off. After the men

got, he fell into divers fits of horror, thrutting himselr

into corners, &c. and died at the very hour and minute

predicted. Ibid.

Dublin, Fuse 16. We are advised from Penfilvania,

that the Widow of Mc Garv'ly and h-r Colony of fer-

yants, are fate arrived there, and are treated with such

civility and ref{pect, as to be ina fair way to arrive at all

happiness that Country can afford.—-—-Yesterday Wheeler

and Jam's, 2 prociaimed rioters were tried, and cleared.

One Murphy a Foot-min received sentence of death for

horse-stealing, and is to be executed wedne‘day fortnight.

——Thursday last at Brackinttown, the H. Tho. Butler,

Ef%; 2d fon ot the Viic. Lanesborow, was married to

the Widow of —— Ormsby, Esq; a Lady of §0,0001.

fortune. C. &e. 25. Mac Gavwrley. S. ‘7.E.

Fune 20. Thursday the H. Col. Otway arrived here

from England ; whose Regiment is in our Barracks. ———

This week one Mr, Murray fold a piece of cioth, made

of hemp at our Linnen-hall, which exceeded any flax for

whiteness: and ‘tis said, that it is impoflible to make

any Dutch Holiand fo white ; fo that we hope our No-

bility and Gentry wil encourage our own manufacure.

C. &c. +7. |

From the Pg [us in Grith treet.

On Saturday Night last, between 10 and 114 Clock, one

Mr. Laycock crotling St. Gcorge’s l’ields to his Lodgings,

was dct upon by two Foot Pads and robb’d of 7 s. 6d. in

Silver, and the Villains wou'd have stript him had not a

Gentleman come up timely tohis Assistance.

Capt. Guctiver informed the Society, that he had re-

ceived a J.etter from a Gentleman complaining of the

lat Grub-firces Fourna/, and was crdered by him fo tell

them, * That he fent them the Epigram, Riddle, or

‘ Anigma, which they said wanted both Rhime and

* Reaion; that it was not his own, but its Author wil

* juttity it &c.’ The Society thought they had proceed-

ed very tenderly in that affair, in not expoling those vere

fes to the world. But since the Author has fo good an

opinion of them, as to undertake a vindication of them,

in opposition to the judgment of the whole Society,

they have ordered them to be printed, with 3 or 4 short

remarks by Nir. Sponpee a celebrated Critic.

Occasion’d by an Epigram, in last thurfday’s Grub-ftrect

Journal, on Mr. 7. M.S—e.

S AID Curisr, the man, that’s pure in heart,

And means no ill, for heav’n may hope.

But, fure, the Bera’s not worth a fart,

Who rot! ing means, fays Maffer Pore.

Criticks and Cafuifts, ipeak your mind,

Is S—e for Heav'n or Hell design’d?

Arfwer.

Ble? may the max be, by believing,

The Poet's hardly worth the /avirg.

1.2, Curist no where fays, that he who means no ill

may hope for heaven: and where he ipeaks of the Pure

in heart, he fays much more, than that they may baicly

hope for it; he fays, they shall see Gol. :

3.4. Master Pore fays no such thing; fo he did not

write the Epigram referred to: nor if he had written it,

had he said what is here alleged. Neither co these 2 lines

contain any oppotition to the 2 former ; and therefore the

particle But has no butincfs here. For he who micans no

ill, tay by meaning norhing be an indifferent Bard, and

yet according to the 2 first lines may hope for heaven.

§. 6. This Question is brought in by head and shoul-

ders, nothing having becn fad about Hell in the lines

foregoing. But ic requires neither Critics nor Ca/uifts

toan{wer it: for if Mr. S—~e meaus nothing, he certainly

means no ill, and consequently may hope for heaven.

7.8. The man is declared bieft by being pure in heart,

and meaning no ill ; and therefore the may 62, either in

the potential, or optative fig: ification, intiudes itfet

where it has nothingto de; and what is worte, brings a-

long with it another intreder delving, which vainly

pretends to be a rhyme to saving.

The Society had thewn their resentment of some rough

language in the Letrer, in another manner, had it not come

from a Person, for whom they have a very great regard.

But they can calily pass by in him some warm « xpreflions,

Occasioned by his zeal in detence of bis Friend; which

Mr. Sponpee’s Remarks will no doubt convince him was

a zeal not according to knowledge. They are sorry to

find, that the world has fo little taste, as not to be more

eager in their demands for hisadmirable Pocms. Which

they design to recommend in a particu'ar manner, if he

think fit to perform his promise in relation to their So-

ciety. At present they shallonly give one infiance of his

great abilities, That he has fatirized thirty one Poets in

twenty four lines. :

The following Epigram we think contains more in 4

lines, than that above in 8.

A gold watch found on Cinder Whore,

Or a good verse cn f--my M—-?,

Proves but what either shou’d conceal,

Not that they’re rich, but that they steal.

Capi. Gutrivir fent the folowing Epitaph, written

by a great Hand,

Epitaph on the monument of the honourable Robert

Digby, and of his fifter the honourable Mary Digby,

in the church of Sherborre in Dorfe:shire, erected by

their father the Lord Digby.

O! fair example of untainted youth,

Of modest wisdom, and pacific truth;

Juit of thy word, and in each thou; he tincere,

Who knew no wish but what the world might heir;

Of fofteft manners, unaffeéted mind,

Lover of peace, and friend of human kind,

Go! live, tor hcav’n’s eternal year is thine ;

Go! and exalt thy moralto divine,

And thou, bleit Mid, attendant on his doom,

Penfive hat folow’d to the silent tomb;

Took the fame course to the f2me quier fore,

Not parted lony, and now to part ro more.

Go then, where only bis since re is known!

Go, where to love and to enjoy are one!

Yer take these tears, mortality’s rehet,

And ’till we share your joys toryive our grie!;

These little rites, a stone and veil, receive,

’Tis all a father, all a triend can give.

The Society rejected the verses, printed in the laf

Universal Spectator, on the fame acc unt that they re-

jeéted those on a Pea, meationed ia our last.

FOREIGN NiWS.

Tuorsvay, Fune rs.

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from France,

Moscow, Mayz-. The Czarina has acquainted Count

Wratiflau, that fhe cannot th’s year furnith his Imperial

Majesty with the 30,005 men promised by Treaties, be-

cause fhe has occasion for all her troops to preserve the

Provinces egequered from Persia, C. ge.

Paris, Fuyit.N.S. The great Sa'lon in the left wing

of the Castle of Versailles, which was a Hall for the

Dutchess of Orleans’s Lite-guards, is to be made into «:

{maler rooms, 6 above ftiirs, and 6 below, to enlarge

the apartments of the Chidren of France. The Actions

are avout 1425 livres, but the Contracts of the Annuities

are falien about 3s per cen. Laft week the E. ot Wald-

grave arrived here trom Vienna. it ts advised from Tu-

rin, that the K. of Sardinia has published an Ediet, for-

bidding ail his subjects to make any donations of real

Litstes to relig ous Communities, fecular or regular; and

ordsining, thar all the Langs which such Communities

are possessed of since a certain number of years, shall be

futje@ to pay the same Impositions as those of his other

subjects are liable-to. Jord.

Madrid, Fare 23. The K. and Q. &e, iet out from

Soto de Roma the sth, on their journey to Cazsla, a

{mail Town between Andalusia and Caitile, at the foot

of the mountains Sierra Morcna, Jdid,

Fripay, Sune 20,

Yesterday arrived two Mails from Flanders,

Rome, Fune io. The Shevaiier de S, George is gone

to Albano with his 2 fons, to pats the summer there:

but “tis believed the Princef’s Clementine Sobieski wiil not

go till towaids autumn. DV. P.

Milan, Mays. The Troops from Germany augment

every day. The Earchquakes continue at Norcia and its

neighbourhood, where ¢20 have been killed, as many

wounded, and not an houte escaped without much da.

mage. D. 7.

Vguna, Fune 17. The fabjects of Hanover are forbid,

und severe penalties, to fell any horses to the Imperial

Jockeys, either tor the Cuvrafliers, or the train of ar-

tilery. Idud.

SaTuRDAY, fune 27,

Yesterday arrived the Mail from Holland

Mofeow, June 3. We hear trom the frontiers of Per-

fia, that P. Thamas had fent an Officer to Lieut. Gen.

Locwafchoff, to notity his accetlion to the Throne; and

to assure him of his resolution to live in good harmony

with this Court. And that the Grand Signor having ot-

fered to acknowledge him, provided he wou'd contirm

the ceflion of the Provinces made by Efreff, he had an-

| fwered, that Efteff having been 2 rebel and uf

he

could not acknowledge any treaty. made by him to the ;

prejudice of Perfiaa D.P, .

Hamburgh, Fure 30. N.S. The Garrison of Swerin

having been reinforced by a detachment from that of

Domitz, attempted to retake the Post of Brandfchan, °

but were repulied and pursued by the Hanoverian horse,

till they got within cannon short of Swevin. CG. &e. It

is Written trom Hanover, that the Courier, fent to Lon-

don, returned the 23d with orders toreinforce the Troops

of execution, in order to enable them to block up close-

ly Domitz and Swerin, D. P,

Vienna, Fune 21. Orders are fent to the 6 Battalions

that broke up last for Italy to hasten their march, and to

go directly to Naples. Orders are likewise given to 16

other Battalions to be ready to march to Italy, as soon

as we hear of the embarkation of the Spamifu forces. C. &es

By a lift we fce here of the Imperial troops in Italy,

they appear to coniift of 83,036 fighting men, to wit,

17,530 Horse, and 65,500 Foot. P. &c.

Granada, Funeg. is Majesty has dispatched freth or-

ders to get ail things ready ter the projected expedition

ot ltaly by the 3cth, DP. DF.

MonvDAyY, Fune 27.

Hague, Fuly 4. N.S. Several thips have been taken up

it Amsterdam, for transporting the Troops designed for

the service ef Don Carlos. We have received advice,

that the K. of Poland’s encampment ia Saxony is broke

vp; and that the K. of Prussia is returned to Berlin. P.

Yeterday arrived the Mail from France.

Paris, Fuly 5. Our latt Letters from Rome give an

account, that the Factions were not yct agreed about the

election of a Pope. P.

Tuespay, June 20.

Paris, Fuly 4. The caba's and intrigues in the Conclave

ae without number. Certain superititious believe, that

the choice will be 09 S. Peter’s day. Orhers ta!k much

of a Latin prophecy of Obard, King of Northumber-

land in the 1X or X Ages; by which it is judged, that

the new Pope will be diawn trom his folitude : Discor-

did Gp sanguine trabent Homincm flanttm in felitudine. Pe

This day arrived the M.il from Holland and two from

Fianders,

Peterburgh, Funet2. Our flcet, which consists “of

40 men of War and 20 fiipuies, Ins ready at Crouflot

and Cronftad to fail w'th the first tair wine, but what

enterprize they are to undertake is not made publick.

They write from Moscow, that the Czarina was refol-

ved to review her Troops in person; and in the mean

time her Majesty’s @fficers have received orders to dif-

m {3 ail unable men, and thoic who are upwards of 60

years old, that the Army may becompleated. S$. Z.E.

Vienna, Fune 16, A Courier arrived yesterday trom

Couat Kinsky, our Ambaffudor at the French Court 5

upon which, a Council was held in the presence of

the Emperor, the result of whose deliberaiions we

are not yet acquainted with. However, the Troops

coming trom Liungary, have received orders to march

back again, as "twas tuppoied, to strengthen that King-

dom tn cafe the Turks thou d attempt any eacerprile against

bis Majesty’s towns therein. Idd

WeEDNESDay, Fely I.

Laft night arrived the Mail from Holland.

Genoa, ‘Fiuner7. ‘Lhe lait jetters trom Marseilles im-

port, thar the generals who are ‘o command the troops,

gauics, and men ot war design’d for the expcdition of Italy,

were arrived there and at Tou'on, and that the necessary

preparat ons were making to imbark the troops. They

write from Barcelona, chat the Spanish troops, to the

number of upwards of 40,000 meu were in full march

towards the ica coasts, in order toimbark ikewils. D, P.

Hague, fuly 7. Itis written from Germany, that

the king of Prussia will furmfh 16000 men tor the de-

fence of the Emprres that the King of Poland, the Electors

cf Cologn and tavaria, the E.cétor Palatine, and the Bi-

hop ot Bamberg, wil turnith each of them 8000 men. Jd,

It is advised trom Rome of the roth of June, that

Cardinal Corradini had thirty votes in one of the {Cruti-

nies, fo that he wanted only five to be cholen Pope, and

that in the next scrutiny he lad thirty two votes, infos

much that he wanted only three; and that it was the

general opinion that he would be elected. 1did.

They write from Vienna, that the heavy artillery was

{et ouc for Ivaly, and that they cont:nued to fend thither

ai forts of ammunition of war; aud that thele circum-

flances, join’d to the little hatte the Emperor shews to

rerurn an an{wer to the last proposals ot the Alies of Se

ville, made them fear an approaching rupture: They aid,

that the Emprror had assurea the Great Duke, that he

will never depart from the Quadruple Ailiance, and that

this Prince has promised powerfully to ailift his Imperial

Majesty with money and provisions. lbid.

I ee 5 Pee + agree aoe ee

- ° 2 7

——

ee

“Annuity 108.

On Tuesday Stocks were

South-Sea tog 3 8ths, for the Opening. South Sea

Bank 143 3 qre- India 192 1 half, for

th: .vening, Three per Cent. Annuity 96 1qr. Afri-

co44§- Royal Exchange Assurance 94. London Affu-

rance 12 1 8th. York buildings 18 1 half. South Sea

Bonds 5 |. 2s. Premium. <Andia ditto 5 1. 10s. ditto

Million Bank 107. New BankCirculation 81. 25. 6d.

per Cent. Premium, Benefits 1710 y 1 qr.. Years Pure

chafe. Nevis and St. Christ. Debent. 6 per Cent.

. Engiifh Copper 3]. 105. Welch ditto 11.

II 6,

, The Course of the Exch-nge.

Amsterdam 34) 7 Madrid 42 5 8ths'

Ditto at Sight 344 Bilboa 42 1 Sih

Rotterdam 34 7a8 Lephorn $1 3 sths

Antwerp 35 Genoa 54 t half

Hamburgh 33 1 az Venice 49

Parisat Sight 3: 1 half Lisbon ¢'s.6d. 1 4th

Bourdeaux at fight 32 1 half | Portoss. 5d. 1 4thas 8ths

Cadiz 42 1 halt Dublin 11 3 4ths

Prites of Goods at Bear Key on Monday.

per Quarte: per Quartet

Wheat — 22 to 28 Hog Peas —~ 15 to 17

Rye —— 12 to 13 Fouling Peas—:0 to 23

Barley -———11 to 13 Pale Malt — 12 to 19 6

Oats —— 7 to 13 Brown Malt— 14 to 18

Horie Beans 17 to 2 Tares ——~18 to 26

Coals 21s, to 238. per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 — 205s. to jos. per Hundred,

Hops 1729 — 3058. to 58s. per Hundred.

Rape Seed 131, to 14]. per Lalt,

ADVERTISEMENTS.

This Day is published,

Ad Epistle from Rome to Mr. Pope. Printed for

J. Roberis near the Oxford A:ms in Warwick-Lane.

rice 4d.

To be Lett.

N Hanchol Venison Yard, b:hind little Brook-street, near

Hanover-square, a very good Stale for three Hortes,

with Hay Loft and other Convenicncies, together with a

Coach House tor two Coaches = Enguiie of Mr. John Da-

vid in little srouk-itreet aforesaid, near the Coffec-houte,

or at Baker’s Coffee-house in Exchange Alley.

This Day is published,

LASPHEMY as old as the Creation, or the

"y Newgate Divine. A Satire. Address’d to the mode n

Advocates of Irrelizion, Prophaneness and Intidelity. By

a © ndeman and a Christian. j

Quod fi in huc erro, quod animos hominum immortales

effe credam, lihenter erro: Nec mihi hunc errorem,

quo écleftor, dum vivo, extorqu-rivolo, animas effe

immortales, - guicquid dixit, Omnium Animi-

rum Soci:s W, Tindall, Tully.

Printed for Lawton Gilliver at Homer's Head in

Fleet-street.

Where may be had, just published,

A new Edition of the Dunciad, with some additional

Notes and Epizrams,

A new Edition of the Artof Poliicks, with a curious

Frontispiece Rifam teneatis Amici ?

Two Epiftls to Mr. Pope, concerning the Authors of

the Age. By the Aurhor of the Univ: rfal Passions

The Merchant. A Noval Lyrick. By the fame A: thor.

An Fpittle to the Earl of Chesterfield on the prefint $i-

tuation of Affairs,

Beautifully printed in Quarto,

HE HISTORY and ANTIQUITIES

of HARWICH and DOVER COURT,

Topographic :l, Dynastical and Political. First collected

by Siles Taylo, alias Domville, Gent. Keeper of the

Kine’s Svores there ; and now much enlarged in all ics

Parts: Wirth Notes and Observations reiating to Naural

History. Uluftrated with many Copper Plates, repre-

fenting the Ciiff it selfs the Foffils containcd therein,

and oth r principal things By Samuel Dale. Printed for

Charis Dawisin Pater-N«ftcr-Row, and T. Green over-

against the Meufe at Charinz-Cro‘s,

NB. There are some tew printed on Royal Paper for

theCurious

-- a Re Fee ee eerie:

° Lately published, .

th THIRD and FOURTH VOLU MES of

lake MUSICAL MISCELLANY

a Colle&tion of CHOICE SONGS and

LYRICK POEMS: With the BASS

each Tune, and Transpoted for the FLUTE. by the

moit Eminent Matters.

MUSIC K’s the Cordial of a troubled Breast,

The forteit Remedy that Grict can find;

he gentle Spell that ciiaims our Cares to iXeit,

4nd calms the ruffling Pathons of the Mind.

Printed by and for J. Watts, at che Printing-Office on

Wild-court, near Lincoln-inn-fields, and fold by the

Booksellers both of Town and Country. Or whom imay be

had the FIKST asi SECOND VOLUMES.

N.B. The FIF 1H end SIXTH VOLUMES,

which will finish this COLLECTION, being in the

Press, and in great ForwardnefS, all GEN 1 LEMEN

and LADIES, who ae willing to contrite any

choice S ON GS, are desired to tend “en is ‘oon as

possible, directed for Joiin Watts at the Printine»Ofhee in

Wild Court, near Lincoln’s-Fields, and Care wi.) be taken

to have them fet to Musick.

BOOKS printed and fold by Joon Biotherton at the

Vible next the three Tun Tavern n Coinhill.

Fenty Works, 4 Vol. | King’s H. (ous

in 4to. Bla:r’s Se muns, § Vol 8vo

‘uay's Faoles, Gordon’s Gcog «anima

Mandeviils Free Thoughts | Plutarch’s Lives,3 Vel 8vo.

—— DittoPavie of the Bees, ! Milton’s Paradite loft.

2 Vol. — ft -——Ditto rezain’d

—— DittoVirgin unmask'd. | Caren !on’s History, 6 Vol

——— Ditto Hy pochondiiack | Guardians, 2 Vol

Oyer’s Telemaciius, 2 Vol, } Cooke's Detettion, 3 Vol.

Ugrim’s Progress "oiler Oenvre Poetijue,

Musical Di€tionary. Colleétion ot Novas

Buch.inzham’s Works, 2 Vol. | Shak -fpear’s Plays.

Rovers Dittionary abridg'd. | Ovid’s Epifths

> spe’s Homer's Illiad, 6 Vol | ——Dito Artof Love,

——Ditto Odyfy’s, 5 Vol. | Abelard’s Lettcis

Just pubdlithed,

HE LAW agant BANKRUPTS: Or, a

Treatise wherein the Siatutes against Bankrupts are

explained by teve al Cai¢s, Resolutions, Judgments, and

Decrecs, both at Common-Law, and in Chancery. Toge-

ther with the Learning ot Declarations and Pleadings

relating thereunto. To which are likewise added, Forms

and Directions tor Commithoners, and Precedents fit for

the perufal of all Lawycrs, Me chants and Tradesmen.

Sic utere tuis, ut aliena non Ledas,

The fifth Edition. To which is now added, An Ap-

pendix ot all the Statutes relating to Bankrupts, to the

Year 1725. By Tho. Goodinge, Serjeint at Law. Printed

by E.and R. Nuit, and R.Gofling, (Assigns of Edward

Sayer, Esq;) tor F. Cogan, at the Mid!le-Temple Gate

Fleet-itreet.

3

Just published,

HE Life of the Right Reverend Dr, White Kennett, late

sithop of Peterborough; with several original [et-

ters of the late Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr. Tennison ;

the lite karlof Sunderland , Bishop Kennet, &c. ani some

cull-us original ‘apes and Records, never before pub-

lithed. And also

The Foreigner’s Guide : Or, a necessary and instructive

Compu.nion, both for the Foreigner and Native, m their

Tour through die Citics o: London and Westminster.

Giving,

rit. A general Description of the’e two Citics, with an

Account of their rfpeétive Government.

ad'y. A Defer:piion +f the Royal {alaces, Noblemens

Ho -fes, pudlick Buildings, Churches, Streets, Ssuares,

and the most remarkable Vloces in and nar the f:mous

M:tropolis : With an Account of the Inns of Court, Royal

Socety, pudlick Waiks, Dive:fions; icmurkable Duys,

Court Divs, Post Days. And,

3dly. A Description of the feve al Villag<s in the Neigh-

bourhood ; as Chelsea, Kensington, Richmond, Cicen,

wich, Woolwich, Hampittead 5 and also orhcis more -e-

mote, viz. Hampton-conrt, Windsor, Oxford, Cambridge.

‘enheim, New-market Horse-races, Epsom, Tunbridge,

Bath. And,

athiv. An Account of the Rates of Coaches, Watermen 5

and also the Rates of Post-hortcs ; with the Roads to

Dover and Harwich.

Very ueful and entertaining both to Foreigner and Na-

tive, and done into English a'd French,

Where may behead, 0 ™

LOVE LETTERS on all Ocenfions, lately paf-

fed between Pertons of Dittin&tien. Collected by Mrs.

Eliza Haywood. ;

Pleasure with Sorrow, Peace with War allay J,

Liberty fetter’d, Hove by Fvar difmav'd 5

Imbitterd Honey, Earnest mix’d with Play,

Art, Love! the Emblem of thy fov’scign Sway,

Printed for, and fold by Francis Cogan, at the Midd'e

Th’s Day is published,

Description of Fhree Hundred Animals, viz. Beag

Birds, Fithes, Serpents end Inie€ts, Witha particular

Account of the Whale-Fishery. Extra¢ted out ot the beg

Authors, and adapted to the Use ot all Capaciti_s, efpec...

ally to allure Children to read Mluftrated wich Coppey

Plaics, whercon is cur ously engraven, e ery Beatt, Birg

Fifth, Serpent or In‘eét, defciived in the whole Book, =”

Printed tor Richaid Ware at ihe Bibleand Sun in Amen.

Corner; Thomas Boreman, the Corner of S:. Clement’s.

anc, without Tuemple-Bar, and Thomas Garne, at the

Bible in Pr.nce’s-ftrect, Diury-Lans Price bound 2 s.6, 4

Alio may be had, j :ft published, at the tame Places,

(For the Use of Schools) the third Ed:tion, or

1, The Fables of Phedrus, (wie was made a Denizen

of Rome by Auzuitus Cefar) uader the following Heads

iz. The Weakeft gocs to the Wall; Chuse the Ieait of

Evils 5 B@ content in your Station; All covet ail ioe.

K-<p not too great Company, &¢c. Rendei’d into tamiijar

English, by Tho, Dyche. Price 18.

_ 2 Emblems for the Entertainment and Improvement of

Youth, contsising hierogly pirical and —nizmatical De. ices

relating to all Parts and “tations of Life; together with

LExptanetions and Prove-bsin French, Spar‘fh, ftalian and

Latin, «lading to them, trunflated into English. The

whol eae engraved on 62 Copper Vlates. Price

+% 6d,

2. The compleat Constable, directing Constables, He ad-

buioug! Ss, fythingemen, Church-waidens, Overicers of

tee Ps» Su veyos ot the Fiziway, and Scavanzeis, in

the Dot, of rivir Olfice, according to the Power alluwed

them) bv the Laws. Pitcers

4. Tiacefinan’s Gude, Contiining a Lift of a‘l the

Stage Coaches ond Car ac'83 with an Account of all the

Fairs and Market Fowns 1 Enzand, Pricers,

Juit published:

ROPOSALS tw ¢i.ming by Subscriprion a

beautitul and conmcét Lunion of ROBERTI

5. EPHANI fLisefaurus Li gue Tatine. Conpared

With the ben Edivens of the Cia tas ACtiche § ade

justed and supplied by J. MARIYWN,i.i..38 and

tne whole corrected and reviled from te Press by

R. RUSSEL, M.A,

Tine great Utciulncfs of this Work having rendir'd it

fearce (tho it has paitled four Impressions) that the best

Edition is now fold for at least fixccen Vounds, it is pre-

fuined that the Ke-priniing of ic, wih these %npiovements,

will be very acceptable to ai! che Learned in Europe

This Work :s to be printed from the lat Ed:tion

(printed at Lyons, containing 653 Sliccts, divided into four

Tomes) and will be rendered mach more uteful, by citing

not only the Books but Chaptirs of the Prose Authors,

and even the Lines of the Pocts; wich being adapted

to the improved Editions of the Claiics, wedoubt not wiil

be as agreeable to the Studious, as laburious to the Editors.

It wili be printed in the fanie Manner, and on as 2ood

Paper, as the Speein:en annexed to the |’ropofals,

The Price to Subscribers will be fix Guineas a Sett in

Sheets; only one to be paid down, two on the Deli ery

of che first Volume Cwhich will contain about 170 Shests)

and one more for each of the other thrice Volumes

Some Copics will be printed on a larger Pape: tor the

Curious, art nine Guineas a Scttin Shects , t« 0.0 be paid

down, two for the first Volume, two for the second, one

fo the third, and two for the lait.

As soon as 200 are subscribed for, the Woik shall be

put to Press,

The Names and Titles of the Subfe:ibers will be pre-

fixed to the first Volume.

When the Subscription is vlofed, the Price will be rais

fed to eight Cuineas for the imall Paper, and twelve the

large.

Receipts for the Subfription-Moncy are signed by all

the Proprietors, wh chi they will pay into the Hanis of

Franas Child, Fig; Alderraan, and return it to the Subscri-

bers by Christmas next, it there is not iuificient Encomages

ment to procced.

Subtcriptions are taken in by the Fditors ; and 7. Bat-

fey, at the Dove in Pater-Nofter Row: A Vandenbacch, at

Virgil's Head, over-igaintt the New Church in the Strands

F. Coan, at the M4 {dle-Femble-Gate, Fleet-Siveet 3 and by

the Printers, S. Palmer and 7. Huggonfon, in Bartholomew-

Close.

Just published,

HE Female PARSON: Or, Bean in the

Sudds, An Opera, 38 it is aéted at the New Theare

in the Hav-maiket. By Mr. Charles Coffey, Author of

the Begear’s Wedding. ’

Print:d for Fran, Cogan, at the Middle-Templ*-g3e 14

Fleet-street, and Lawton Gillver over against St. Dute

fian’s Church. Price one Shilling.

Where may be had,

The Amours of Philario and Olinda 5 or, the Intrigueé

of Windsor: A genuine History. Price one Shilling. Allo

An ESSAY founded on Arguments Netural and

Mora!, proving the Immortality of the Soul, Tianflared

from the Original Manufeript of the Archbishop of Cam-

LONDON: Printed by Mr. Moore, for Captain Gutuiver, near the Temple, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in.

temple-gate in Flect-street.

=e re eee tel

-_——-- ——

[Price Two Pence.]

——-

bray. Price one Shilling.

