The Grub-street Journal.

Numb. 29.

Thursday, JULY 23, 1730.

Ne quid falfi dicere audeat, ne quid veri

non audeat. Cic.

SIR,

I Send you the charaéter of one of the

greatest Genius’s of the last Century,

MoNstEUR DE THou, drawn up by one

of the greaceft of this, L. Carrerer.

1 with there may arise several as great,

or even exceiiing him, before the next

Century commences. At present, I

believe, it may be daid, without flattery, that tora icho-

lor and a statefman, he stands without a rival.

This account of Tuuanus’s History is in Mr. Buck-

Ley’s third Letier to Dr. Meap, concerning the new E-

dition he is just putting to the press of thar admirable

Writer. ’Tis strong and masterly, and wriiten with an

honest and free {pirit.

As | am a Lover of learned en; and beautiful Edi-

tions of their Works, I tee with vast pleasure five or

six hundred of the greatest names in Europe, Subicribers

to this new Edition otf THuanus’s History ; at this jun-

Gture of time too, when Subicriprions are fo very much

in disgrace, through the folly and knavery of some per.

fons, who, if they can but nummos in locumm demit-

sere, have no value for their reputation.

When a private man undertakes a great and useful

Work, which he can’t carry on without the afliitance et

men of fortune ; in such a cafe ‘ris sight to lubicribe :

but one that begs Subscriptions because he wants pocket

money, should be discouraged and neglected.

Tuuanus is an Historian of the first rank, with re-

{pect to the excentiveneis and dignity of his fudj.é;

which he has treated in the most proper and ornamental

file. No writer ever did more honour to his country.

He always vindicates the just rights of France, and has

furnished his countrymen with ivlid arguments to main-

tain them.

The Rights of the House of Bourson are by him

fet in the clearest light. Yet such were the times in

which he lived, that the Courtiers at Paris were not

ashamed to sacrifice him to the resentments of the Court

of Rome; with this aggravation, that his own Heroe

Henry IV. was unfteady in his defence, and fuftered

this most learned, candid, and free-{pirited Frenchman,

his most faithtul subje& and useful triend, to be insulted

by Priests and Pigots; who woulda, if they could, have

suppressed this immortal Work. And this is an instance,

in which Henry lV. did not shew his usual grandeur

of mind ; but was wanting to himéelt, in not support-

ing a man he loved, and eiteemed, and was ebliged to,

against the iniquity cf Persons he despised. Whoever

reads this History with attention, will fee, that Tauanus

{peaks truth ot himself, when he fays, That he rather

declined honours at Court than fought them; and that

he placed his whole dignity and security in a good

conscience,

Tho’ the Work is long, colle&tively considered, yet it

is not long in its respective Parts. He leads the Reader

through the whole world ; is very entertaining in whatever

he writes; and, for the most part, is very initruétive, It

is uot to be expected, that he could be fo exact in what

he writes of Foreign Countries, as he is in what re-

lates to his own. The principal value of his work con-

fifts in what he delivers concerning the Courts of Rome,

France, and Spain : and in treating the transactions of

those Courts, he is to be looked upon as an original

Historian.

There are many curious matters relating to Germa-

ny; but as they are taken from other Writers, he has

not the merit of being the original in that respect: but

yet his copy, if we may {0 call it, exceeds infinitely all

the originals in beauty and ornament of writing. There

are Many curious things relating to fevetal Cowrts in

Italy ; some of which are to be found no where else.

As to the Low Countries, he gives the best and fullest

account, from the beginning of the Troubles to the

Truce fet on foot in 1607, of any Author extant.

The great Revolution in Portugal after the death of

Don Sepastian, is admirably told, anno 1679. Asto

the Turkish matters, and the affairs of the XeriFres in

Africa, he exceeds all who have written upon them;

and he seems to take a particular delight in them, from

the novelty and surprizing incidents that occur in them.

He makes excurfions into America, as also into the re-

mote parts of the East. He gives a very good account of

Poland, Hungary, Tran{ilvania, and Walachia, and of the

affairs of the House of Austria with thote Countries. He

gives us enough of Muscovy, Sweden, and Denmark,

Prussia, and Livonia ; and in all those particulars is high-

ly entertaining. Asto England, it must be confessed, he

is not always exact; but some miftaKes concerning the

legal part of our constirution, and judicial matters, are

very excufable in a Foreigner. He does justice to the

Nation in great points; and Queen Exizapetn’s Reign

appears no where in greater nor truer Justre, than in his

History. Asto Scotland, he follows Bucwaian, for the

most part, as far as tha: Author goes, and adds credit

to him, Those who find fault with f> great a per-

formance upon little inaccuracies relating to foreign

Countries, shew but small experience in publick affairs,

by imagining, that he could have exa& accounts of all

the foreign countries in Europe, as to their domestick

state, and what related wholely to themselves.

There were few that could give him perfect accounts

of their own countries; and the most careful and judi-

cious may be mi‘taken. Whatever transaction any Court

had with France, is accurately related; and the variety

of his subjects affords great entertainment and relief in

reading: but the chief value and uulity of his History

coniifts in his relations concerning the three Courts ot

Kome, France, and Spain; which at that time gave the

ip:ing to the affairs of the whole world.

In this grear work {cveral kinds of History are con.

tained, distinét trom the princ:pal objects 5 as in parti-

cular, the Progress of Litersture, which is interwoven

with wondertul art and labour in the account of about

400 Persons, who within that time were contiderable

in the several parts of the world tor their learned Works.

And here his Humanity is apparent, in ceniurng none

too severely : but as he toucties tuuits gemily, fo he

gives due praise, where it is deserved, without distin&ion

upon the account either of Religion or Country 5 and to:

this the Court of Rome was highly incensed ayainii

him, and his Work cenfured, as if written by an Here-

tic. The Romith Emiffaries have pretended, that the

pofthumous Work, or Continuation of the History from

the 8oth book, was to be fulpeéted: but chat proves it

self to be genuine by its ftile and inimitable treedom of

spirit, intirely agreeable to what he pubished in his life

time, and fet his name to.

The fymmetry and contexture of the whole Work

cannot be sufficiently admired; and it is fo rich in ma-

terials, that if it was broken into Parts, and those ranged

under their respective heads, it would make {everal ex-

cellent Histories: all which wrou'd be substantial and con-

cife, and fought after with eagerncfs by the generality

of Readers.

Whereas taking them all together, Fite Volumes in

Folio in Latin, for about 60 years only, deterrmany from

venturing upon them : but the new Edition will dimi-

nish thit apprehension, by making proper divisions ; by

which it will appear, that almost every where, in half

an hour’s reading, there is to be found a proper paule.

It is mow about 100 years since any kdition of this

History has been published: and as few of them are

beautiful, and none of them can stand singly, we are

much obliged to Mrr Bucktey for undertaking fo useful

and expenifive a work; which will be some honour to

England when it comes out, as it will do Justice to one

ot the best Historians, andtrueft Advocates for Liberty,

that ever wrote. Yours, B,T.

A Letter from Mr. j M to Dr. J M

in Answer to his, printed in our Journal Numb. 26.

Honoured Uncle, ~July 20, 1730.

be. shall soon fee (as you defyre) your pro-

digall Nephew, at the peitle and mortar: for I am

not one of these fools, whom the wyfeman fayeth,

you may bray in a mortar, and never mend. I assure

you, I have been against Witt, ever since I tound Witt

was against me. I hate it fo much, that | am now

prosecuteing a Bookseller for but three lynes that have

only the shadow of it. If any Wirt jokes upon me, |

feek my remedy (lyke an honest plain unwriting man)

-

-_—

at Law. What think you, Uncle? Is this setting up for

a Witt? T have cow, for these six weeks, had the dye

given me pudlickly, without reply. What think you;

Uncle ? Is this feiting up for a Gentleman? Judge y o

at which end of the Town I am firtelt to live. Two of

your good wishes for me are fullfilled: I can now live

only with my own Relations; and I findy the-Law. Astd

your third with, of my faring God, 1 cannot yet bring

my self to it ; Thave still fotne bravery left toward dim.

_ Ever Honour’d Uncle, I do, fairly as a Gentleman;

justly as a Paymaster, and conscientiously as a Christian,

proteft, that I never writ fyve lynes together of my

own, Verse or Prose, in my lyfe. That Play, you charge

me with, had every word of the witt in it taken from

the mouths of other people, and fet down in my table

book befor their faces.. You might ¢s well call the thill-

ings and pence in a Charity Dith the mans that carries

itabout. It is true, that for a short time I was thought

a Scholar in Town, a Witt at the University, and a Poet

at the Temple: but no visible deftinétion now remains

to me, besides that of a Free Majon. No Creature, 1 af-

fure you, Uncle, now ‘ame a Witt. Even my

Friends at py Fg to Whom I give wine and a

{upper to call me fo for a night, deny it the nixt morn-

ing, when they have nothing to eat but their words.

It is true, 1 did go with some thing again P-rx, (ot

rather (lykea Puppy.) carried it to and froin my mouth)

these two years and upwards: but, believe me, tho’ I

was abow: and about him fo long, ’twas but as the Irish

man was about Court: | got nothing by it, and hed not

got that neither, but for my good friend Mr. Wexsteav.

I therefor carneftly entreat you, not to give credit to

the lying Journalls, or Epigrams, with which I am daily

cninightly pefter'd as an Author. The only Person, that

yivesitout that Tam fo. is CaptainGuttiver: now, let

any one, that has read his Travells, judge, what credit is

due to his assertion. It is hard, Dear Uncle, very hard,

that whyle all others deny [ can wtite, you should dif-

inherit me for writing. Be juster for the fature to

(:ver Honoured Uncle) your penitent Nephew. J, M.

We could not refuse the good office of inserting this

jutyfull letter, in justification of a Person, who, have-

ing. by some been treated as a Witt, by others as a

Grub-street Writer, at last appears to be no Writer at all:

We ask his pardon for being to far mistaken, and promise

to fay nothing more of him, concluding with his Epi-

taph.

Hert lyes what had nor Birth, hor Shap:, nor Fame;

No Gentléman! no man! no-thing! no name!

For Fammie ne'er grew Fames ; and what they call

More, fhrunk to Smith—and Smith’s no name at all,

Yet dye thou can’ft not, Phatrom, oddly fated:

For how can nothing be annihilated ?

Ex nihilo nibil fit.

Notwithstanding what is here said, if an Information be

granted against Captain Gittiver, we shall print the whole

Tryal, with all the {pceches and pleadings: which we

doubt not will be entertaining to the Publick.

LONDON.

C. Courant. E.P. The Evening Pof: —

P. Pojt-Boy. S.F.E. St. fames'sEv. Poff.

Ww .E. Whitehall Even, Po.

KL E. London Evening Pot.

D P. Daily Pof.

D.F. Daily Jouraal.

Important Articles omitted in our formef.

Walker's new invented Clock Lamp — which shew4

the hours of the night era&tly as they pass—supplying

the place of aClock, or Watch, and Candle—which be-

ing conveniently placed by the bed-fide, one may li¢ still

in bed, and fee how the time pafles. D. P. 6.

This Invention, for @ person to fee how the time pafles

is certainly very ingenious, but not Alrogether fo likely to

take, as pne by which personss might lie fill in bed, and

sleep, without knowing at all how the time pafles away.

Mr. Layton of East-Ham, going on board a Weft-In-

dia Man, broke his thigh by a fall down the main hatch-

way. C. 8. A private Centinel was whipt on the

Parade in S. James's Park. P.g.-——- A Coach-man dri-

ving haftiy along Cheap-fide, fell from his bog, and fra.

Th ad

>

$

ured his skull. fbid. —— Dublin, June 30. Sat. lat a by Mr. Humberftone’s Stump ; on wedn: the 50 gui-

Coach-man, by careless driving, kilied a child. 161d. —

Laft friday dicd Mrs. Kenn, the pious Reli& of Mr.

Kenn, Brother to the Bishop of Bath and Wells. E. P.

—— Yestercay the son of one Mr. Parker, a Grocer, was drowned. C. 10. Yesterday the son of one John Magnes, a Grocer in Southwark, was drowned.

C. 13.———— Sat. a poor man, coming into the Upper

\ foorfields, was crushed between a polt anda dray. 141d.—

3 ra'efators were whipet trom Newgate to Hick’s-

hall, and to Aldersgate. D.P.13.———Sunday a Gen-

tleman and his Wife coming over ’utney Common, the

Chair overf=t; sad the Gentleman’s thigh-bone {lipt, and

his Wife was much bruised. C. 14. Sund. night a

Back, servant to Mr. Wiiutsms in Durham-yard, fell

down a pair of Cellar stairs, fra€tured his s ull, and died.

D. Ff. A smith in Green Dragon Court, South-

waik, fell trom a house and died in an hour. P.

45.

Tuursvay, July 16.

New Commissions of the peace have lately passed the

Great Seai, tor the Counties of Huntingdon, Glamorgan,

and Carmarthen. C. D.P.

Northampton, Func g. This day the Assizes ended here,

when ove ian received sentence of death, tor robbing

on the highway. P.

Lait tuefday the Assizes ended at Hertford, which

proved a maiden one. D. P

Berween 11 and 1: atmtyht a fire broke out on board

the Ship Bercy, lying at. Ho tlyedown, waich had began

to lade tor Oporco. “She lay in a teer with other Siups

afloat: fo they turn’d her aorift, cut down her malts,

and funk here The fire burnt her upper deck to the

main hatch way, and through 2 coils of cables, but scarce

touched her caryue: » boys, who lay in the Fore-caftie

were found miicrably burnt to death. D. F.

A Piicot has passed tae great seal, graating to Capt.

Ro. Hamp.ia the tole ule of his new ivention for at-

ftisoitng |oghrs tor the guidance of thipping, where-

by every ship’s crew may know what coult they are off,

as we! in the phi, as ww the day. C. D.F.

Jn ‘ueliay ded st Oxford, of the droply, Mr. Sam.

Darker, son of the Bishop of Oxford of that name.

D.P. A Gcaleman g-catly esteemed tor his learning,

huosanity, and truly orthodox principles. He was ta-

mous tor divers excellent Works; more particularly for

that learned and elaborate Commentary on the Holy

Scriptures, which he was carrying on, intituled, Br-

bliotheca Biblica. D. FJ. Ue retufed the oaths at the

Revolution, and lived retired at Oxford. D.P. He has

left a large family of 8 children, and a mournful Wi-

dow: but his death can hardly be more regretted by

them, than it is by all who had the happiness of his

acquaintance. D. F I am informed, that he was

too young to refule the oaths at the Revolution, and that

be declined them since

Newcastle upoz Tyne, July 6. Mond. last Mr. Geo.

Moor, fithing in the Tyne, near Pipewell gare, efpy’d

some thing in the warer like a drowned dog, upon which

he threw his line to it, and hook’d a coat ; but the hook

Joofing hold, he caft bis line again, and drew a boy to

shore, who in lefsthan a quarter of an hour came to him-

felt, E.P. S.F.E.

At the Aff_izes at Oxford only one man received fen-

tence of death, for murdering his Wife : at Winchester

4 received sentence. E. P.

A few days since was married Sir Windebank Jelf to

Miis Meads, a Lady of :2,0001 fortune. E.P. S. 7.E.

W.E. On mond. Sampfon Le Gend, Eig; to Mrs. Paget,

a Wid. of 20021. and 4401. per an. fortune. did.

We hear, that Mr burgess hath obtained the D. of

Newcastle’s Grant of being keeper of Tothiil-fields Bride-

well. S.F.E.

Mond. night the 2 Mr. Snows, within a few doors

of their houte, in Queen-street near Lincoln’s-inn-fields,

were stopp’d by 2 Street-robbers; whom they refitting,

one ot the rogues shot one of the Mr. Snows in the

groin with duck-shot; and it is questioned whether he

will recover. Tne rogues immediately ran away, crying,

Sropthiet. LE. This paragraph, interpreted sn the

Woolftoni:n manner, powats at two Grubean Renepados,

who hav: attacked the Gentlemen of our Society in the

DailvJournais; bur wer- forced to run away, crying, Stop

Thiet, rhe better to make ‘heir escape. The name of one

of thim is ANONYMOUS, and of the other VINEGAR.

Fripay, Julyt7.

On the ed inft, at i'aventry the 151. plate was won

by Mr. Tur ng’s Cinder Wench; on the 3d the 50 gui-

neas, by Humbsrfton’s Fr fty Jack ; and on the qth the

121, by Mr. Aliiry’s hack Joke,— At Nottingham on

tuefd, the 7th, the King’s plate of 100 guincas Was won

e

nneas by Mr. Warren’s Robin Red Breast ; thurfd. the

Galloway plate by Sir Arth. Haflerig’s Sweet Maiden-

head; and on friday the 301. by Mr. Brewfter’s Miss

Nefham. D. F.

Wedn, night a Foot-man belonging to the Lady For-

refter was attacked, in Great George-street, fianover-

square, by 2 robbers; 1 held a pistol to bis breast, whilst

ihe other robbed him of his watch and some money.

D. F.——I think a Watch is as necessary a bauble fora

Street-Robber, as for @ Foot-man.

Yesterday morn. the D. of Leeds fet out from his

house in Piccadilly to go beyond Sea. P.

Tucfd. last Tho. Crifp, Efg; was married to Mrs.

Owen, a Lady of 20,000]. fortune. Ibid. Laft week

to Miss Owen, aLady of about 15,000]. D. ‘7.—

Yesterday Mr. Lamb of Hackney to Miss Barker of

Hampstead, a Lady of 40,000], D.P. A Lady who

will probably bring a fortune of 50,000 |. D.F.

Laft week died at Harrowbrigg Hall in Northampton-

shire, Sir Horatio Holland, Bar. by whose death the ho-

nour is extinét. C.—On tuefd. Mr. John Short, a Mef-

fenger of the general Post-Office, a place he had enjoyed

above go years with no {mall advantage; and tho’ he

was in his o1ft year, yet he was capable of doing his

business, and could read the {malleft print, or hand- wri-

ting without fpectacies. D. P. Mr. Nic. Jackson fuc-

cecdshim. JLZ.E. 18,

Saturvay, July 18.

Port{mouth, Julyt5. Yesterday 6 Companies of Ma-

jor Gen. Groves’s Regiment embarked on board the

tran{fports at Spithead: the rémainder wait for other

transports appointed tor them. Brigadier Kirk’s Regi-

ment is now embarking, Craft/man.

On tuefd. morning 11 or 12 Justices met at Covent

garden vestry, took a great number of examinations,

and immediately issued out warrants against 1 disorder

ly houses, and fent the H. Constable with a great many

Petty Constables, to execute the fame. Several persons

who keep those houses were apprehended, and brought

before the Justices; some ot which are bound over to

the Sessions, some committed to the Gate-house tor want

of bail, and others fled. Lond. Fourn.

’Tis said, that the fold'ers in Great Britain will be em

ployed in repairing and levelling the roads in most parts

of England, as in other Countries 5 and that they are to

be allowed their full pay. E. P. I am glad to hear,

that some proper employment on the roads is fiund ont for

these Gentlemen, who are very apt to emp.oy themselves

there in another manner.

The Soyth Sea Companys ship P. William, bound for

Carthagena and Porto Bello, being fully laden, fell down

the River from Woo!wich to Long Reach, and there

remains ;: no Agent having yet appeared to measure her

on the Part of Spain, as stipulated in the Assiento con.

tract. However, as the Company have had her mea-

furement certificated on the oath of 4 reputable persons,

’tis believed, that that certificate will be sufficient anu

fatisfaory, in cafe the Spaniards do not depute a per-

fon in a reasonable time. D. 7 This is highly

probable, from the accounts we have lately received of

some instances of their kindness, and confidence towards us,

in the Weft-Indies, and the Groyne,

Since the arrival of the 4 Ships in the East- India Com-

panys service, Mr. Abr. Weflal, one of their super-car-

goes, has informed the Court of Directors, that the la-

dings were purchased contiderably cheaper than what the

Invoices charge them: if he proves his assertions, the

Company will fave about 30,0°ol. The ike has hap-

pened in relation to the Ship Coxhorn in Ho.land, the

first Ship that has arrived there trom China in many

years. bid.

Mond. 12. the Assizes ended at York, when 6 male-

factors received sentence of death: On wedn. the

Assizes ended at Salisbury, when 2 received sentence of

death. D. P. At the Assizes at Gloucester 4.

Sef. E.

Wedn. last died Mrs. Butler, Wife of Dr. Butler, Vice-

Chancellor of Oxford, and President of Magdalen Coll.

1bid.—-She was jifler to the late famous Dr. Sacheverell.

Sat. last, an elderly man, a Carpenter at Gerrard’s-

Crofs in Bucks, growing jealous of his {weet heart, in-

vited her to walk with him on the Common adjoining,

carrying with him a loaded Fowling-piece; and askiag

her peremptor ly, whether fhe would have him or not,

and fhe answering, No, he put the muzz'e under his

chin, and with the end of his rule pulled [fhoved) the

trigger, and shot himself thro’ the head upwards. Idid.

Newcastle upon Tyne, July 14. A Perton having his

gardens trequently robbed, watched himielt last night :

but the next morning he was found hanging in his hand-

kerchief on one of hit Fruit-trees, with his skull tick

E.P. )

, Thursd. died at East-hampstead Park, near Oakingham,

Mr. Elijah Fenton, Author of the celebrated Tragedy of

Mariamne, and several other poeticalPieces. §.F.2. L.E.

I am informed, that the learned Mr. Kirreve

has the Life of this Gentleman (who was @ great enem

to our Society) lying by him; which be will /peedily publish,

with some pofthumous Pieces of his, and, according

cuflom, a true Copy of his last Will and Testament.

Laft week the rev. Mr. Derham, Re&. of Upminster

in Essex, had the Degree of Dr. in Divinity conferred

on him, by the University of Oxford in public Conyo.

cation. L.E,

Monpay, July 20.

Sat. ended the Assizes at Chelmsford, when 6 male.

factors received sentence of death. C. &c.

Tuefd. Sir Ch. Hotham, Bar. arrived here from Ber.

lin, and waited on their Majesties, who received him

very graciously. P. :

Sat. his Majesty, the Duke, Princeffles Royal and A.

melia on horseback, her Majesty and the P. Carolina in

an open Chaise, and the Princefles Mary and Louisa, &c

reviewed the L. Mark Ker’s and Gen. Witham’s Regi-

ments, on Wingfield-Common. Ibid.

Frid. 5 Street-robbers attacked a Gentleman in acoach

near Somerset-hovfe; 2 of wham got into the coach

and rifled him. [dsd. Thom. Tifford, a Porter ip

S. John’s-street, and his Brother, returning from Hen.

don about 11 at night, were fet upon at the bottom of

Fig-lane, ocar Kenufh Towr, by 3 Foot pads: and Tho.

mas making some refiftance, 2 of the Vilains shor az

him ; whereby he was shot in at the right cheek, and

out at the left fide of the necks and in at the forehead,

the ball iodging in the tore pirt of the head. He died

co fu:rday. His Brother was forced to beg hard for his

lite; and thinks he knew one of them. J6id.

They write from Great Nefs, and other aijacent vil-

lages in Shropshire, that a violent fickncds rages there,

which seizes them [people] in the bowels end head, at.

tended with shaking | ke an ague; which carries them

off in 3 or gdays. There are f{carce labour:ng men enow

ro get in the harvest. Ibid

V.ond. about 3 in the morn. the E. of Weems and

Co:. Chartetis, being dressed to go to Wiudfoi, the Co’,

{nt Mr Leflie, his Gentleman, crols the way to his

ftsbles, whom 4 Foot-robbe:s attacked, and ro! bed of

his money, and a bunch of keys belonging to his ma-

fter. Ibid.

Mr. Green, who on the 7th commenced Dr. of Mu-

fic at Cambridge, was chosen Professor of Music in that

University. D.?.

Sat. 2 boys, about 11 years of age, robbed the fhopof

Mr. Sherman, a Linen-draper in Dean ftrect Soho, of 20

yards of J.inen: whereupon they were apprehended, and

one of them was taken and committed to gaol, but the

other made his escape. D.F. —~ I apprehend, that if

both of them were apprehended, shey were both taken ;

tho’ onely one was committed to gaol.

Tuespay, July 21.

Yesterday 2 Regiments of Foot encamped on Wind-

for Forest; when all necessary orders were given for

their making it clear and commodious for hunting. C.

The soldiers belonging to the L. Mark Kers and Gen,

Withams Regiments. P.

Laft week was difccvered in a cellar, next door to

the golden Still on Lond. bridge, over the water-works,

a curious piece of stone, in which is very legible, in Bat-

fo Relievo, Anno Domini 1192, being 17 years before

the fiaishing of the bridge with stone, in the reign of

Ric.I. Ibid.

Laft week the rev. Mr. Campbell (Author of a late

took entituled, An enquiry into the original of moral

vertue, published under Dr.Innes’s name) was appointed

by his Majesty, Profeflor of Divinity and Church Hi-

story in the University of St. Andrews. —We hear, that

he will shortly publish A Discourse concerning religious

enthusiasm, to prove the Apofties no Enthusiafts; and a

2d edition of his Enquiry &c. with additions and amend-

ments, leaving out Dr. Innes’s Introdu@tion. did.

Yesterday the L. Baltimore was married to a Daughter

4 - Theodore Janflen, a lady of a considerable fortune.

We hear that a prize of 10,c00 guilders, in the Durch

lottery now drawing, is fallen to Mr. John Farrer, Corn-

factor at Bear-Key. D. ¥.

The gang of Thieves that have fo much infefted

the roads between London and Islington, &c. is said

to consist of 8 or 9 young Fellows, having 1 old

thief among them. On far. 3 of them, (who having

got a good booty were very free and flafhy in some

company, shewing their watches, rings, and guincae'

Se ae

[p3]

hired horses to go to Windsor: but some persons having information thereof, pursued and took them all in bed at a publick house near Windsor. We hear, that one of them, 16 years old, is a Tradesman’s son in Newgate market, and had a pistol about him, which he said was

Blewet’s, which he valued above all things, D. P.

Canterbury, July 18. On Wedn. last George Bailey, of

Kenardington, Bratier, a blind man about 60, was com-

mitted for a rape on Anne Milton a poor Girl under 12.

Mond. a servant to a Ginger-bread Baker in the mint,

was committed to the new Goal, for ravishing a Girl

of 7. D.P.

Wepnesvay, July 22.

Some of the robbers taken at Windsor on sunday lft,

have confessed the fact, upon a ftri€t examination, and

impeached a greatnumber of their gang. feve-al ot which

were taken on monday and yesterday; and upon their

being examined before a Justice, have been committed to

Reading goal. D. 7.

The soldiers that are to be employ’d in mending Wind-

for Forest, are to be alowed 7s. per week additional pay,

by the Government, during their {aid employment. Ibid.

Yesterday in the afternoon died at Islington, Mr. Wal-

ker, Barrister at 1.1.4, who wasrebbed, & Id —Ilam

affared by a letter, which came from Ifingron this morn.

at 10. that he walks about his room, and ss supposed to be

ont of dav ger.

Edinburgh, Fly 6. Tuefd, Matt. Randa the Centinel,

was sentenc'd by the Lords of Ju'ciary to be banged

in the Graisemarket Aug. 12. C, 16,

Fuly +o. Extract of a Letter from Glasgow, July

10. When IT was at Port Glaftcow. I made it my business

to {peak with he \.inifter an-ne that story of Whitz.ell’s

death; who effured me, that it was a falfhood, &c. C.

P, 21.

Laft frid a Woman at Temple, a few days ago mar-

ried, broueh: forth, and murdered a child. id.

Dubbs, July 11. Sat. last one Managhan, a Butcher

in Parrick itreet, having some words with his Wife,

stabbed her ia the belly with his knfe, of whch fhe di-

edontu f! night: the viliain is fled. C. P. 18,

We have an account trom all parts. that there has been

this year the greatest p'enty of all kind of grain and food,

that ever was known. C,

From the Pegafus in Grub-fireet.

Mr. Bavius having scad the Answer to the Letter

from the WeEKLy Meptey, which he had been directed

to draw up, the Society ordered them both ro be printed.

Brother Bavius, July 11,1730.

OU have fo happily described some of my features,

that the first which catched my eye, plainly shewed

1 was the amiable Original you drew from. I mutt ob-

serve, however, that the resemblance would hive been

much nearer, had | ps added haf«a dezen inches to my

stature, and graced my countenance with a few more

pock-holes, [I wis vastly pleased to find you was fo

tender of my reputation, as not to once hint at the lofs

of my eye-teeth; bur charitably to substitute two others

of less consequence. You take notice that I ha/e a little

ow one Leg. Would that part of the description were jutt ;

for, alas! I am quite crippied: a misfortune I owe to a

kick of the thins, which an uolucky Grubzan yave me ;

that at the same time, tho’ most unaccountably, depriv’d

me of the use of both my hands. Your nice obdferva-

tion, that 1 interlard my drckon Englih with French and

Latin, proves your profound jujgment in ftile : but as

to your saying, that | frequently tag the ends of my fen-

tences with raime; that does not atleét me very much,

I having never employed any of my own jing'e upon

those occasions.

I was sorry to hear, that my friends were troubled

for my noneappearance at the Pega/us : but as I’m per-

fwaded you're not given to blab, I shall let you intoa fe-

cret. My Cloaths have, for some time, been very much

Out of repair; which has confined me to my night-gown:

otherwise you should have been visited, as usual, by,

Dear !'avi, Yours most affectionately,

Weekty Meptey.

P.S. Be fo indu'gent as not ta play on the word

Original.

Bro. MEpLey.July 22, 19306

if was agrecably surpriscd to hear, and that from your-

self, that you was alive. It was not, I must own,

fo much out of tenderne(i to your repstation, as a

ftri& regard ro truth, that I mentioned the /o/s of twoof

your fore-teeth, which are of much greater consequence

to a Satirift, than his eye-tzeth, as being more useful in

biting deep, and holding faft. From halting a little on

one leg, which was your cafe, when I saw you latt,

Tam sorry to hear that you are quite cripp'ed, not only

in your legs, but lixewife in your hands; and desire to

|

know the name of the unlucky Grubean who has u’ed

you fo barbarously ; that the Society may show their’ re-

fentment of the injury dore you in a proper way. I am

very proud of the teflimony you give to my profound

judgment in flile; and in return, with, that you had

employ'd your own jingle, rather than that of others; which

I am persuaded has contributed le{s to the diversion of

the Public. You shall experience my taciturnity when-

ever you think proper seriously to let me into a secret:

but you only banter, in telling me of the badnels of

your Cloaehs as one ; and morc io, in assigning, that as a

reason for your non-appearance at the Pegafus. Burt 1

fear you have in earnest been let into a feeret your self,

which is very apt to confine Persons to a night gown:

and as f90n as you have put your-self, as well as your

Cloaths in good repair, al! your Friends willbe very glad

to fee you here; and none more than, Decr Mep.

Yours most affectionately Bavius.

P.S. We have just received information, that you are

certainly dead; and that your death was occasioned by one

ot our Society : which proves, as we suspected, the

Letter under your name to be a forgery. Upon which I |

am direfied to advise you, by no imeans to follow the

examp'e of Dr. Partrince, in vainly pretendiog to fur-

vive yourse'f ; but fairly and honestly toown the misfom

tune which has happen’d to you, and to fend us an exact

account of it. The publication of which by our Society

will be the only means to prevent thole false accounts,

which wiil otherwise be given of your untimely ends

which we all heartily lament.

FOREIGN NEWS.

Tunursvay, July 16.

Yeferday arrived the ‘\iail from France.

Moscow, Fune 17. N.S. Count Munick has fent hi-

ther a memorial drawa by an Engineer, well skilied in

making canals; and was dat for from Holland to view

the new canal which has cost the government above

2,000,000 of rubles. He fays it will be impoflivle to

make it serviceable to trade, unless means can be tound

by dykes and fluices to top the sudden inundations

from the lake of Ladoga every {pring and fall, because

they carry more fand into the canal in 2 or 3 hours,

than ¢ or 6000 men can clear it of in asummer.C. Her

Czarish Majesty has made a new regulation for the exact

administiation of justice, by causing all the Laws to be

reduced into one body, in order to fix the judicial pro-

cecdings of the Courts of justice. D. P.

Lisbon, Funets. A man ot war, which failed out of

the Tagus with the last fleet from Brazil, has some Offi-

cers on board, who are to secure the Governor of Bra-

z'l; who, having discovered a mine of diamonds, made

a very coatiderable estate by the sale of them, before he

gave his Majesty any notice of the matter. C. D. P.

Barc.lina, July 9. The fruits of the earth promise

great plenty. Weare ina great hurry on account of the

preparations for the expedition for Italy, or, as some will

have it, for Sicily. This port will be the rendezvous for

the whole army and fleet. Here are 13 Spanish men of

war, and 7 gallies; and 13 more men of war are soon

expected, Here are also 70 or 80 French Tartans taken

into his Majesty’s service, and many English Ships. D F.

Ship news.

Hague, July 7. Our private advices from Vienna in-

form us, that the Great D. of Tuscany cou'd no longer

defer receiving the investiture of Sienna ; which the

Allies of Sevilie will go near to resent as a manifest vio-

lation of the Treaties. Letters from Paris fay,

that an Express came in from Spain the 1ft inft. with

resolutions of their Catholick Majesties, no ways agree-

able to the picitic views and inten“:ons of Card, Fieu

ry ; fo that they are apprehensive that the bomb is up-

on the point ot bursting. However, he fent an Express

to the Marq. de Brancas, with orders tu that Minister to

make vigoroas representations to their Catholick Maje-

fties, to prevail with them to defer the expedition to

Iraly yet a while, till they can receive the Emperor's an-

{wer to the last proposals. P.Julyt8. Yesterday three

Sodomites were executed at Rotterdam, by being strang-

led and burnt with straw. There was executed at the

{ame time a man for counterfeiting the coin, who did

nothing but deplore his misfortune ot dying in such com-

paay. S. F.£. é

Paris, July 22. Francis de Neufville, D.de Villeroy,

&c. died here the 13th, in his 87th year, The

Doétors of the Sorbonne, Appellants trom the Constitu-

tion Unigenitus, who had not retratted, were excluded

the 1f inft. C. &c.

Moscow, Fune 22. The Chinese Embaffy on the road

to this place consists of 3 persons. The Emperor, by

whom they are feat, is named Junfching, which in the

Chinese language signifies a mild and gentle reign; a

name he assumed upon his accession in 1722. Hewas

,

the 4th fon of Cham Hi, who died in the 71 ft year of

his ages Since this Prince’s coming to the crown, the

Christian Churches have been shut up, in all the Pro-

vices, except Pekin andCanton. W, E.

Fripay, July 17.

Rome, uly 1. N.S. The Chevalier de S. George has

broke up house-keeping at Albano for the fealon, and is

come to Town with his Family. C.

Hague, July tt. The affair of the D.of Mecklemburp’s

return into his Dutchy makes a great noise ; and we are

informed, that he will be supported by the Courts of

Prussia and Saxony ; which cannot be agreeable to those

ot Hanover and Wofembuttel, —~ Our Transports are

Preparing to fail with 2 Regiments, under convoy of 3

men of war, to join the EnglishjSqu:dron at Spithead, P.

Saturday, July 18.

Yesterday arrived 2 Mails trom Flanders.

Danizick, July 8. lt appears by the advices from

Leopold, that the plague increases in Podolia, Volhinia,

and some other places, from whence they will not fuf-

fer any body to pass : but the Waywodes and Starifts

fuccour them as much as they can, by fending them

bread, wine, and othe: provisions. D. Ff.

Milin, June 26. We are at a lofs where to lodge the

Troops that are coming from Germany. They are pre-

paring at the Convent of the Benedi@tines a lodg:ng for

Count Merci, who ‘is suddenly expeéted to take upon

him the command in chief of the Emperor’s forces ia

Italy, which will confit of 80,000men. D P D F

Florence, July (Fune} 28. It is written t:om Genoa,

that Signor Fene!l:, the lateGovernor of the Isle ot Cor-

fica, arrived from thence the 18th, and was very ill re-

ceived by the Great Council, being accuied of having,

by his oppreffions and cruelties, given occasion to the rea

volt of the people of that Island. W E.

Leghorn, ‘Fune2z3. The affairs of Corlica have {till a

bad aipeét, tor the rebels keep themselves quiet, and icem

belive they are under and encouraged by, and promised

the afliftance of some foreign Powers. D P.

Paris, July 22. An Engith Alderman, who generally

hunts with the King, made his Majesty a present of

some English hounds, who received them with a great

deai of complaifance, and ordered his Groom in return a

purse of Lewis d’ors. W.E.

Mownpbay, July 20.

On Saturday arrived the Mail from Holland.

Hague, July as. N.S. This day a Placaert of the

Sates of Holland and Weft-Friefland was fent to the

Towns to be published, concerning the commission of

the detestable tin of Sodomy, and ordering that for the

tuture it shall be openly punish’d with death, &c P.

Berlin, July ig. The K. of Prussia fet out this morn,

at 3 from Potfdam for Gen. Seckendorts house in Saxony,

from whence he procecds to-morrow to Anfp.ch. V. P.

TuesDay, July 21.

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from France.

Paris, July 26. N.S. On the 23 a courier arrived

at Comp'egne witha confirmation of Card. Corfini’s cles

Gion, He is a Tuscan aged 78. C.&c. He was cre-

ated Card Priest by Clement XI. May 17, 1706 He is

of a noble family, and has all the endowments ht to qua-

lify him fer his high dignity. D,P.

This day arrived the Mail from Holland.

Leghorn, July 8. Yesterday there entered into this

port a french thip that came from Toulon, the Matter

of which reports, that a body of 69°50 men was encamp-

ed near that City ; that the 2 men cf war from Breit,

who failed towards the coasts of Barbary, were :etura-

ed into that port, and that the Spavith Commissaries had

hired, there and at Marseilles, 130 tartanes, most of which

were already failed for Barcelona. According to a lift of

the men of war that are to compofle the Spanish flect in

their expedition of Italy, they confit ot three of go

guns each, ten of 80, tenof 70, and seven of 36t0 4o,

belides three fregates, two fireship:, and two bomb-gal-

liots. There are at this time §00 Imperialifts at Mafla,

a like number in Carrara, 300 in the Marquilate of Lune

giana, and between 4 and §009 cantoned in the neigh-

bouring villages: these troops are commanded by General

Wetlel, and will be reintorced with ¢o00 men in cale of

need, in order to hinder the Spaniards from making a

descent in the Lunegiana. L. E.

The Courfle of the Exchonge.

Amsterdam 34 9 Madrid 42 1 8th

Ditto at Sight 34 526 Bilboa 42

Rotterdam 34 10 Leghorn ¢0 3 «ths

Antwerp 35 a 1 Genoa §4 3 Stns

Hamburgh 33 3 ‘Venice 48 1 bait

Bourdeaux at Sight 32.4 8:h | Portoss. 5d.

Paris at fight32 thalfaz 8ths | Lisbon 5 s.6d.

Cadiz 42 Dublin 10 ¢ 4th

very easy, which confirms the opinion ot tho'e who °

~%

%,

a

ree

«gt

3 +2

i

# her

Fon

“%

per Quarter

— 22 to 26

16

18

16

26

W heat

Rye —— 12 to

Barley -——'5 to

Oats -—— 13 to

Horse Beans 21 to

[p4]

Prices of Goods at Bear Key on Monday;

per Quarter

Hog Peas —— 22 to 24

Boling Peas —-24 to 20

Pale Malt — 26 to 28

Brown Malt— 24 to 26

Tsres m=————20 to 22

Coals 22s, to 26s. per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 — 25s. to 39s. per Hundre}.

Hops 1729 — 405. to 6os. per Hundied.

Rape Seed 15]. to 16]. 10s. per Laft,

On Tuesday Stocks were

South-Sea 103 4 8th, 102 7 8ths, a 3, for the Open-

ing South Sea Annuity 106 ¢ Sths.

Bank 140 1 4th,

az 4ths. India 187, 187 1 4th, 186 half, for the

Opening. Three per Cent. Annuity 94 1 4th. M:lion

Bank 108. Aftican 44.

$j. 428.

York buidings 18.

Exchenge Assurance (1001. paid in) gt + haif.

Assurance (131. paid in) 11 7 Sths.

South Sea Bonds 4 1. 1738.

Royal

London

Bank Circulation

India ditto 5 1.

10s. English Copper 31.105. Welth ditto 11. ros.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

This Day is published,

HE 3d and 4-h Volumes of Sermons by Samuel

Clar«¢, D. D. laie K tor of St, James’s Westmin-

fter; p. d from

Vo.. Til,

OF the Library of moral A-

gen.s

A

help to understand wue

Kel gion.

Tic pia&tice of Morality

leadsto wie practice of the

Cotpel.

The of a gond

Mon.

Tic Nature of human aéti-

ons

How to judge of moral A&ti-

ons

Tie Nature of religious

C utis.

Of Chrit's calling Sinneis

to wepentance.

Tie Execilency of moral

Qunlifications.

Of Humility. |,

O. poverty of Spirit —

O: the Virtue of Charity.

Thenature of rel wiveDutics

The Inconfiitency of the

Love of God with the

Tove of the World,

The Folly of mocking at Sin.

P:inted for jam $s

St, Pau! sChureh-y aid.

e . the Aurchor’s M55.

Clarke, D D Dan of Sarum.

utuous Mond tke best |

sy John

Vol. IV.

Of that Belief which is ne-

ecffary to Bapiifin.

The Design and End of

Beptim is Newneis ot

Lite,

Of beinz baptized into the

Name of any Person

The Nature, End and D--

fizn of the Holy Com-

munion

Of the Catholick Church of

Christ,

Of the Number of those that

fall ve iaved.

The Qualifications of those

that shall be faved.

That the Terms of Salva-

ton are offered to all

Men.

The Quulifications necessa-

rv to receive the Terms of

Salvation.

Mens not accepting the

Terms of Salvation is

from themselves.

Of the Nature of true Chri-

flian Zeal.

and John. Knapton, at the Crown in

This Day is published,

N Ode.

Inscribed to his Grace the Duke of Buck-

ingham, on his embarking for France. By Jolin

Lockman.

O qu fontibus integr's

Gaudes, apricos nette flores,

Nette mco Lamix coronim,

Pimplea dulcis.

Horit.

Printed for Lawton Gilliver, at Homer's Head, 2-

gainst St. Dunstan’s Church in Fleet-{treet ; price 4d.

Where may be had, just published,

Blasphemy as old as the Creation, or the Newgate

Divine. A Satire. Address’d to the modern Advocates of

Irreiigion, Prophaneness and Infidelity. By a Gentleman

and a Christian.

Quod fi in huc erro, quod animos hominum immorta'cs

effe credam, libenter erro: Nec mihi hunc errorem,

quo dele€tor, dum vivo, extorqueri volo, animas effe

i-nortales, -———— quicquid dixit, Omnium Anima-

rum Socius W. Le)

Tully.

A new Edition of the Dunciad, with some additional

Notes and Epizrams.

A new Edition of the Art of Policicks, with a curious

Front'fpiece

Rifum teneatis Amici ?

Two Epiftls to Mr. Pope, concerning the Authors of

the Age.

By the Author of the Universal Pafiions.

The Merchant. A Naval Lvyrick. By the fame Author,

An Epistle to rhe Earl of Chesterfield un the prefint $i-

tuation of Affairs.

Just publishe?,

{In Oétavo pound in Calf.) “pe

7 E At of Heraldry. Containing L. The Ong nal

and Universality or Arms and Ensigns, with their

Uie and Neceflity; thei Blazon, Diftribution, Abatements,

and Kewards ot Honour, II. Of diverie kinds oc Et-

cotcheons, and of the bearing or using the Ordinaries in

Coat Armour. Il, Of Coit Armour form’d ot Artificial

Things, whether Civil, Reclefiastical, Military or Marine,

such 2$ are made by man, or forh.sUfe. IV. Of Charges

in Coat Armour form’d of Cee.eftials, as tie Sun, Moon,

Stars, Angels, &c. Of Vegetables, a3 Tries, blow-rs,

i lants, Fruits, &c. Of the Parts otf Man’s Body, as the

Hands, Legs, Arms, Heart, &c. Of Animals, a> Lyons,

Tyzers, Horses, Stags, &c. in Whole and in Parts. V. Ot

Charges from Fowls and Birds of all Sorts, in Whole and

Parts VJ. Of Charges from Fishcs of all Kinds, in Whole

and in Parts. VII Of Charges from Monstrous Animals, in

Whole and in Parts Embellifh’d with For.y Copper

Pjatcs, containing above 900 Coats of Arms of the Nob -

lity and Gentry of Great Britain and Ireland, curiously

enaraven, with thetr particular Defc:iptions, and by whom

boin?, Interipers’d with the Natural Hitory of the fe-

veral Species of Birds, Beasts, Fishes, Vegetables, &Xc.

comprehend-d therein, Together with Occasional Expli-

catigns of all the Terms used in the Science ot Heraldry,

and pecul ar thereto. To which is prefix'd, An Alphape-

tcal Lift of the Nam:s of the Familics whose Coats ae

delineated in the Buok, with Referenc:s tu the Pages wiere

they are to be found. Printed for J Os'vorn» near Dock-

head, in Southwark: And Sold by A. Bettesworth in Pa-

ter-Nofter Row, and F, Cogan at the Middle Temple

Gate, Fleet-ftrect. 1730.

Just published

ROPOSALCS for Printing by Subscription a

beautiful and correct Edition of ROBERTI

S'EPHANI Thefaurus Lingue Latine. Compaied

with the best Editions of the Clatlics, the Referenc s ad-

justed and supplied by J. MARTYN, F.R.S, and

the whole coree€ted and reviled from gne Pros by

R. RUSSEL, M.A.

The great Ufetulness of this Work having rend rd it

fearce (tho it has passed four Impressions) that the best

Edition is now fold for at least tixtcen Pounds, it is pre-

fumed that the Re-prinring of ir, with thvie Improvements,

will be very acceptable to all the Learned in Europe

This Work is to be printed from the last Edition

(printed at Lyons, containing 653 Sheets, divided into four

Tomes) and will be rendered much more ufetul, by citing

not only the Books but Chapt:rs of the Prose Auchois,

and even the Lines of the Poets; which being adapted

to the improved Editions of the Clafics, wedoubt nor will

be aS agreeable to the Studious, as laborious to the Edito:s,

It will be printed in the same Manner, and on as good

Paper, as the Specimen annexed to the Proposals,

The Price to Subscribers will be fix Guiners a Sett in

Sheets; only one to be paid down, two on the Del: ery

of the first Volume (which will contain abot 170 Sheets)

and one more for each of the other three Volumes,

Som2 Copies will be printed on a larger Pape: for the

Curious, at nine Guineas a Settin Sheets ; two io be paid

down, two for the first Volume, two for the second, en:

for the third, and two for the latt.

As soon as 200 are subscribed for, the Work shall be

put to Press.

The Names and Titles of the Subfzribers will be pre-

fixed to the first Volume.

When the Subscription is closed, the Price will be rai-

fed to eight Guineas for the small Paper, and twelve the

large.

Reccipts for the Subscription-Money are signed by all

the Proprietors, whch they will pay into th- Hands of

Francis Child, Efg,; Alderman, and return it to the Subscri-

bers by Christmas next, if there is not sufficient Encouiage-

ment to proceed.

Subscriptions are taken in by the I ditors ; and 7 Rat-

ley, at the Dove in Pater-Noffer Row, A Vandenhocck, at

Virgit’s Head, over-against the New Church in the Strand ;

F. Coran, at the Middte-Temple-Gate, Fleet-Street 5; and by

the Printers, S. Palmer and 7. Hug gonfon, in Bartholomew-

Close.

BOOKS printed and fold by John Brotherton at the

Bible next the three Tun Tavern im Cornhill.

Ddifon’s Works, 4 Vol. | King’s H. Gods

A in ato. Blair's Sermons, § Vol-8vo.

(say's Fables. Gordon’s Geog. Grammar.

Mandevill’s Free Thoughts | Plutarch’s! i es,3 Vol vo.

—= Ditto Fable of the Bees, Milton’s Paradise lott,

2 Vol. Ditto rezain’d.

DittoVirgin unmask’d. } Clarendon’s History, 6 Vol.

Ditto Hy pochondriack | Guardians, 2 Vol

Boyer’s Telemachus, 2 Vol, ; Cooke’s Detettion, 3 Vol.

Pilgrim’s Progress. Roileau Oeuvre Poetique.

Mufteal Diétionary. Colleétion at Novels.

Buckinzham’s Works, 2 Vol.

Royer’s Dittionary abridg’d.

Pope's Homer's Iliad, 6 Vol

Dizto Odyfy’s, 5 Vol.

|

Shakespear’s Plays.

Ovid’s Epistles.

Ditco Artof Love.

Abelard’s Letters.

wae pnewe ~

N: Printed by Mr, Moore, for Captain Gutttver, near the Temple, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in.

{Price Two Pence.]

This Day is publish’d.

Demonstration of some of the principal S<ftions of

Sir Isaac Newton’s Principles of natural Philosophy,

In which his peculiar Method of creating that useful $u5-

ject is explained, and applied to some of the chief Ph».

A

nomena of the Syfiem of the Werd. By John Cjark>

D. D. Dean of Sarum. Printed for James ani Joh}

Knapton, at the Crownin St, Paul's Church-yard.

Where may be had,

2. Rohault’s Sytem of Natu:al Philosophy. Muetr¢

t.d with Dr. Samuel Claike’s Nates, tuken most ly out of

Sir Isaac Newton’s Philosophy. Done into English by John

Clarke, D, D. 2 Vo's. 8vo,

. An Enquiry into the Cafe and origin of natural and

moral Evil. Being sixteen Sermons preach’d at Mr. Boyles

Lefture 1719 and 1720. By Jolin Clarke, D.D. in 2 vols

Svo.

'4. The Trur; of the Christian Religion. By Grotius.

Correéted and illustrated with Notes by M. Le Clerce

Translated by John Clarke, D D.

A Compendious Alpliabetical D.ttionary of the an-

tient Fabulous History, ompil’d for the more easy

uuderstanding of the Poets, as well as the Dcfizns in

Paintings and Statues.

Done from the French of the Learned Sieur P. Chompre,

in such a Manner not ovly as to serve for an Exere-fe

Bvok for Latin and French Schools; but also for a

Pocket Companion for young Gentlemen and Ladies who

attend Theatrical Entertainments.

Printed tor L. Gilliver at Homer’s Head and F. Cogan

at the Middle-Temple-gate, boti: in Flect-ttreet.

Now in the Press, and nigh finished,

This Day is published, ina neat pocket Volume, Price 2 s,

6 d. the second Edition with Additions of

T H E Invelligencer. By the celebrated Author of the

Tale of a Tub.

Omne vafer vitium ridenti Flaccus amico

Tangit, & Adm‘ffus curcum trecordialudit, Perf,

Con aining, Theinhoip table Temper: of Squire Wetiier.---

A Vindication of Mr. Gav, and the Beggar’s Op-ra.

The Folly of Gaming. — A Description of what the

World calls Ditcretion. A Represen:ation of tie

present Condition of Ireland. ——-—— The Charaéte:s of

Corafodes and Eugenio. A Dia'ozne between Mul-

iniz and Timothy. Thefoolifh Methods of Edu-

ion among :he Nobility.— Tim, and Gay’s Fables.

---- Proposals in Prose ani Verse for an universal Vicw

of the eminence Writers or the holy Scriptures. vit

Rilph the Par iot turn’d Cou:tier.——The Art of Story-

t-lling. ———— Promethus’s Artof Man-making, and the

Tale of a T—d. The Services the Draper h.s

done his Country, and the Steps taken to ruin it ——-———

The Adventures of the three Brothers, George, Patrick

an! Andrew. The Marks of Iveland’s Poverty,

fh_wn to be evident Proots of its Riches. St. Are

drew’s Day, and the Draper’s Birth-day. The Hard.

shins of the Infh being deprived of thar Silver, and de-

coy’d into America —- Dean Smedley gone to feek

his For une.—The Pheasant and the Lark: A Fable.

Printed for, and fold by Francis Cogan, at the Middle-

temple-gate in Flect-street.

Where may be had,

The Life of the Right Reverend Dr. White Kennett,

late Bishop of Peterborough; with several original Lete

ters ot the late Archbishop of Canterbur’, Dr. Tennifons

the lite Earl of Sunderland , Bishop Kennet, &c an} some

curious Original -ape:s and Records, never before pub-

lihed. And also

The Foreigner’s Guide : Or, a necessary and instructive

Co.upinion, both for the Foreigner and Native, in their

Tour through the Citics of London and Westminster.

Gi. ng,

ft. A general Description of the‘e two Cities, wich an

Account of their respective Government.

2dly. A Deferip:ion of the Royal Palaces, Noblemons

~ Ho fes, publick Buildings, Churches, Streets, Squares,

and the most remarkable Places in and near the famous

Metropolis : With an Account of the Inns of Court, Royal

Society, publick Walks, Diversions, remarkable Days,

Court Days, Post Days. And,

3dly. A Description of the several Villages in the Neigh-

bourhood ; 2s Chelsea, Kensington, Richmond, Green,

wich, Woolwich, Hampstead ; and also others more re-

mote, viz/ Hampton-court, Windsor, Oxford, Cambridge-

Blenheim, New-market Horse-races, Epsom, Tunbridge,

Bath. And,

athly. An Account of the Rates of Coaches, Watermen 5

and also the Rates of Post-horses ; with the loads to

Dover and Harwich.

Very useful and entertaining both to Foreigner and Na-

tive, and done into English and French.

A LS O

LOVE LETTERS on all Occasions, lately paf-

A between Persons of Diftinétion. Colleéted by Mrs

Eliza Haywood.

Pleasure with Sorrow, Peace with War allayd,

Liverty fetter’d, Hope by Fear difmay dl ;

Imbitter’d Henev, Earnest mix’d with Plav,

Art, Love! the Eindlem of thy fov’reitn Sway.

————

LONDON: Printed by Mr. Moore, for Captain Gulliver, near the Temple, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in.

[Price Two Pence.]

