The Grub-street Journal.

Thursday, JUNE 4. 1730.

Se ST

Who flings most filth, and wide pollutes around

The ¢ be bis the Weekly Journals bound,

Dunciad, B. Il.

emcpaame (2. PAMPHLEYEERO defir’d icave to read to

weeeeeees) the Society a paragraph or two out of the

i: e last London fournal, May 30. which he did,

Peeretem! as follows. ‘ The vilionary and whimh-

ap § Pe: cal, the disappointed and envious, poor

© and idle Fellows, half-Scholars, and {carce

é balf-Wits, have been always troubling the World with

é Schemes of Reformation. Mr. Ortuopoxo, beg-

ging pardon for the interruption, said The observation

was very just, and that this very Author had given a

wery flagrant iaftance of the truth of it in his Foursal

of May 16, where he had recommended the ttudy ot

natural or experimental Philosophy, to the intire exclufi om

of Divinity; and had proposed to reform the world by

the reading of the 600k of Nature, which book alone he

affirmed would infallibly teach a man the will of his

Greater, and his own duty, and fave him the trouble of

reading any other Books.

Then Mr. Pampuceteero proceeded: « We {warm at

¢ this time with State Mountebanks, Political Quacks,

‘and Reforming Vermin; who, without a Shilliag in

‘ their Pockets to buy a Dinner, and without one Vir-

« tue to cover em from Infamy, write Satyrs upon the

* Age, and cry aloud for Ortiodoxy in the Church, and

¢ against Corruption im the Staze.—--e—Some faucy pert

< Fellows, through their own ill condud&t thrown upon

¢ the World, offer the service of their Pen to a Great

« man for Bread, and humbly beg to become sordid AJ-

© yooates for Power, and Patrons of Venality: but fancy-

‘ing, that they are mot rewarded equal [he means

¢ equally] to their Merit, they ftrut, look big, vow re

« yenge, and immediately turn Pamphleteers and Jour-

¢ nalifts against the Government. Nonjuring Jacobite

© Priests, fhabby, wandring, vicious, igno;ant Parsons

© without a Cure, Night-Houf: Wits, and bepgarly Poe-

€ tafters, are our great eridbling Statesmen, aud railing

© Advocates for publick Natonsl Fauh, aud public lo-

¢ man virtue. Thus far our Author.

Mr. President, Tho’ this Society passed a Resolutio a,

Jan.21- not to publish any Political Ditlertations in thes

‘Journal, yet since feverai of our Members do it weekly

in other Papers, those Dissertations come properly under

our cognizance, and we ought to commend or censure

those, whose Jabours in that kind deserve either our ap-

probation or animvadversion. And I think we shoud

take particular care, as far as we are able, to promote

civi'ity and politeness among those of different Parties;

and oblige them to treat one another like Gentlemn,

with decency and good manners, but above all, we

should hinder, as much as pollible, all scandalous Reilections

upon the Persons or Profeifions of each other. On this ac-

count I thought proper to read to you the foregoing para-

graph, in which the Author abudes feverai learned Persons

among you, with the most opprobrious names, calling

them wifionary, whtmfical, disappointed, envious, poor, idle

Fellows, Hal! jcholars, (carce Half-wits, State Mountedanks,

Political Quacts, Reforming Vermin; faucy pert Fellows;

nonjuring Facobite Priefis; {habby, wandring, viciors, ig-

norant Parsons without @ Cure; Night-Hei/:-wits and

begcarly Poctafiers. This strain of [Rhetoric he certainly

learned in our Society, and which may properly be used

towards some persons, and on some occefions: but it

is bafe and ungratefulin him, to turn this artillery against

us. The upbraiding some of us with our poverty and

inability to buy a@ dinner, is a p.ain proof, that notwith-

standing his aversion to Divinity, he has not prejrved his

Humanity. The want of virtue (a want in his opinion

much less to be dreaded than the want of a dinner)

which he objects to us in the next place, is avile, gone-

ta aspersion, built on no other foundstiou than a politi-

cal Maxim, always asserted by the superior, and as con-

stantly denied by the inferior, Party. The max:m 3s

this, That whoever write agaij? che prefeat admini-

ftration of the Government, have not one virtue t0 cover

"em from infamy. Which is equally true with that Maxim

generally received by Dedicators, That all those who are

at any time in the Administration, while they continue

therein, have al! the virtues which can adorn the brightetft

ebaracter. Some of you, Gentlemen, it seems, have ogered

the service of your pen to aGreat man for bread; but fan.

cying your feives not retarded according to your merit, you

firnt, look big, (at which I much wonder, iince you bave

now neither mozey in your pockets, nor dinner in your

belly) vow revenze, and immediately turn Pamphleteers

and Journalifis agatn/? th’ Government. In this accusa-

tion I fee nothing that bears hard upon you, but the

imputation of pride and vanity, which made you over-

value your services, and desert your Patrons. And in-

deed if the cafe be as this Gen:leman has represented it,

I think you are inexcufible. For not only Poverty and

Pride are very inconiiftent 3 but ycu have likewise aéted

very inconiittently with your own offers, and your own

interests. You had offered tae ferrvice of your pen io a

Grest man for bread. Did he not pive you that, and

meat with it? If he did, why was you diflatisfied, and

fo ambitious as to grasp at more ? Why were you fo

ungrateful as to turn against the Great man who fed

you ? Had you continued that, which, it seems, you

had humély begged to deccme, viz. sordid Advocates of

power, aud Patrons of venal:ty ¢tho’ poor Patrocs who

‘wrote for bread) you had then become Whole-/cholars

and #f'nch-wits; you had had tke inward comfort of a

dinner; and the outward cloak of virtue to eover you

frum iafomy, and might have made in all respects as

good a tigure as this learned asd loyal Gentlemin. But

| presume the Representation i: intirely, or at leait partly

false, and that you cither never made any such offers, or

ef: declined the performance of them upon better mo-

tives. However, be the cafe as it will, such language is

unjultifiable, and altogether uafit to be uled by one learned

Gentleman towards another.

Then Mr. OxtHovoxo {pcke in the following manner:

Tho’ the Observations made »y the Gentleman who {poke

last are very just, as far as he has proceeded, yet [ think

the latter Part ot the Paragraph in question much worse

than the tormer, ‘ Nonjurirg Jacobite Priests, fhabby,

‘ wandring, vicious, ignorant Parsons without a Cure,

* Night-house Wits, and begprly Poetetafters, are our

« great feribbling Statesmen, ad railing Mdvocates for

‘ public national faith; and pubic Roman uirtur, This

is a most false and malicious rprefenration of ‘our So-

ciery, as if it incoureged Perfois who are not only dif-

aficcted, but declared enemies t the present happy Efta-

biithment. As I have by taking the oaths qualified my

feif to hold that preterment I njoy (with which, tho’

not very considerable, I am peteétly satisfied) 1 cannot

look upon my fcif, as particuirly aimed at under the

names of Facobite Priest, or Pafom without aCure. Nor

do 1 know any of my Brethren, who are concerned in

writing Political Papers, who «an come under either of

these denominations. hut evca in cafe some xonjuring

Facobite Priefi bad tent a Pcitcal letter to our Brother

KceGy which he had printein his Journal, if it were

fence and truth in it fet, wuld the political opinions of

the Author make it degeniate into noafence or talfe-

hood? Or could this greachange in any writing be

effected solely by the circurtancesof the Writer; who

may perhaps be a fhabby, ‘andering, vieous, ignorant

Parjon, and yet capable enogh of transcribing the fen-

timents of virtuous and leared men? If a vicious and

ignorant Clergyeman advare any thing of his own

head, I think ic ought to bexamined very caretuily by

the Reader; who will indee be naturally very backward

to be swayed at ali by suchuthority. But 1} cannot fee

the reasonableness of what tis Gentleman has added to

compleat the character of fhatby, wandering, vicious,

ignorant Pavfon, and renderhim altogether unworthy

ot the least regard, that he iseithoug aCure, It is true,

the two former parts of thicharacter may be removed

by a good Cure, and a fhiby, wandering Parson may

thereby become a spruce anfettled Divine: but prefer-

ment, I fear, his no tendens to remove the two latter

parts of the charaéter, vic and ignorance, and to ren-

der a Clergyman virtuous al learned. If therefore such

a Person be vicious and igrant, it signifies nothing in

this argument, whether he: fo with, or without aCures

Nay, let a man be very leaied and virtuous, and have

likewise very good Pretermnt 5 yet this can give him

no advantage in controverti Writing, over one who is

in a meaner and more unttled condition. Does this

Gentleman himself pay a greer deference to the reasonings

of the Bishop of St. David's, ban to ghuie of Mr. Woor-

STON, because the former has a very large Cure, and the

latter is a (habby, wandering Parson without any ? What

then makes the difference in the cafe, and gives one fhaba

by wandering, ere. Parfoa a prerogative above another 8

Heterodoxy. Thjs covers a multitude of Sins. And

this Gentleman frankly declares in this very Journal, ¢ £

‘ never knew any orthodox men, who had just notions

of Morality; and, I think, from the Nature of their

* Heads, *tis impoflible they thould This is pronounc’d

ex Cathedra, and with all the assurance of Old Infalli«

ble: in imitation of whom, he has lately exercis*d two

iluftrious Aéts of supreme Authority. One in his Fourn.

Numb. 563. where he established a new Canon of Scrip

ture, removing the Books of the Old and New Testa-

ment, amd substituting in their ftcad the Book of Nature.

His words are quoted in our Fourn. Numb, 20. The

other is in his Foura. Numb 564. being the loft but

one, where he has taken upon him intirely to alter the

old Martyrology, striking out at once ail the Martyrs of

Ant'quity, and placing in their room a new fet of Saints,

even the Rebels of Forty one, His words are these:

* They fought for us, and they perished for us: These

* were Martyrs indecd! not to idle Opinions and fenf-

* Speewlations; but to their Country, to Virtue, to the

* Laws and Liberties of England; and we, their happy

* dons, reap the benetit of those virtues here, which en-

* ctled them to fo great a thare of happiness hereafter.

These Patriots were first canonized by Pope Bax-

TER, Who placed them in The Saints everlafling Rest;

which did not prove fo to them: for in the next editi

on after the Restoration, he left them all out, but how

he disposed of them was never known: this Gentleman

can tell best where he found them.

Mr. Mavius then stood up and said, Mr. President,

[ should not have troubled the Society with a word on

this occasion, had only my own cafe, and that of my

Poetical Brethren been concerned, who I suppose are

here intended, by the terms of Night house-wits and beg

garly Poetaflers. But when I fee almost our whole So-

ciety struck at, by some or other of the polite appella-

tions here bestowed upon us, I think we ought to take

this matter into consideration, and shew our just resent-

ment against this Apostate member; who, I don’t doubr,

we shall find upon Enquiry cither to have been, or per-

haps actually to be, one of those very characters which he

endeavours to represent in such a contemptible light.

However I do assure him, I think it much more repu-

tale to be a Parson without a Cure, or a beggarly Poctad

fier. {peaking or writing his own real dentiments, as

occasion offers, than to be a Parjn highly preferred, or

a weil-fed Poctafter, vilely prostituting his pen for pay to

the dictates ot others.

flere Mr, President interpos’d, and said, Gentlemen, I

thiik enough has been {poken upon this Subject. The

zeal of this Gentleman tor the prefeat estabishment, I

highly spprove: but [I with ic hod not carried him fo

far into general and invidious Refle¢tions upon our Mem-

bers. Had he known any one of us who dcferv’d the

character of a Jacobite writing weekly against the Goa

vernment, and pointed him out; I should have joined

heartily with him against any such person: more efpee

cially, if he were a norjuring Facolite Pri ff, whom I

have always had in the utmost detefiation. But as his

Reflections are general, | must declare them to be un-

just alpertions upon us, and that he juitly deserves to

be cénfur'd on this account. However, | think it the

best way to do nothing precipitately, but to suspend our

censure tora while, in hopes that in one ot his futura©

Journals he may soon fet this matter in a clear light, ta

the full fatista&tion of this learned Society.

Mr. Bavius then presented a Specimen of a Satyr

which he received from an unknown hand, which be.

ing read, wasordered to be printed, as follows:

Prasruemy as old as the Creation; or, the Newgate

Divine. ASatyr. Address’d to the modern advocates

ot Itreligion, Profanenfs and Infidelity.

Quod fi in hoe erro, quod animos homimum immortales

effe credam, libenter erra: nec mihi bwnc errorem, que

delector, dum vivo, extorquari vole. Tully.

Duicquid dixit. Omnium animarum (cciuse

Tind—},

W ANT, or the pride of being deem’d polite,

Tempts gay apostates to deceive, and writes

i

frach Picred truth f{corn, er to difclim,

Prompted by hunger some, and fame by fame.

Few starving Tinpb——Ls woud renounce their creed,

Who on pure faith cou’d better drink, and feed:

Nor for a dinner in ftale errors deal,

If found Divinity wou'd fetch a meal,

Wootston wou'd own a Saviour, dread a Hell,

Like gainful unbelief, did {cripture fell;

The Godhead he derides, wou'd learn to fear,

Like Blasphemy, if Miracles fold dear.

But who can blame each Sage, in judgment nice?

Good pagan Doétrines yield a better price:

Who calculate exat their gains each day,

And know what wages Heaven and Satan pay;

Rach with that piety and prudence blef;

The pow’r to own which cloath’d and ted’em best.

Their pot each morn an allegory fills 5

The Spirit faves’em, while the Letter kills.

Not half fo plump, the mystic Doctor's made

By real Subflance, as by type and Shade;

"Twas weak to print chcap truths, when for a lye

They knew the British markers ran fo high,

(All books in fraud and faltheod that excel,

Like goods forbid by law, more fure to fell ;)

Unwile the projeét, and the author’s vain,

Maintaining texts, that wou'd not them maintain,

Ail truths in their opinion but a cheat,

Whose patrons oft must write,—but seldom eat.

Impossible a Scheme shou’d be divine.

Whose authors fup on curds, on Trotters dine;

Or any faith a heavenly sanction boatt,

That feeds nor all its friends with boil’d, and roast.

This (a) Tinp—L knew, and Pious vow'd to quit,

Doétrines, that wou'd but seldom turn his {pits

Tir’d with aChurch, whose Canons did define

That to believe was sweeter than to dine;

Within her pale for hina allow’d no place,

Who thinks good earing the first Christian Grace 5

That faith celestial only, that affords

The largest bumpers, and the fullest boards;

To number up his crimes he ne‘er begins,

But always reckons Fa/ts amongst his fins

(These deeply moan’d) and deems the guilt less great,

Each evening not to pray, than not to eat-

Lefs ravish’'d with his duty than his cup,

He oft fi -2ets to knecl, but ne’er to fup.

~ (a) A moder» Epicurean Writer, very_remarkable for his

good eating and bad principles.

This Satyr is in the press, and will Speedily be pub-

lithed.

LONDON.

Tnuurspvay, May 28.

Her Majesty hath been pleased to appoint Charles Lon-

greviic, kfq; to be her Auditor, 4 Even. Pofs.

Mond, lati died in child bed, at Weybridge in Surrey,

the Lady of the R.H. Talbot Yelverton, E. of Sussex.

Dep. E. Marshal of England. Ibid.

Frid. last the Lady of the Re H. the Lord St. John of

Bletfoe was brought to bed of a Son at his icat in Bed-

dshire. Daily Poff.

“7 few days oat tied Capt. Wroth, Secondary of the

Pipe-Office, a place worth 500 |. per ann. And last week

Charles Hornby, Esq; firit Clerk of that office was ap-

pointed to succeed him. Post Boy.

We hear that the R. H. the Lord Hobart is appointed

Lieut. and Custos Rotulorum of the County of Norfolk,

in the room of the L.Vifc. Townshend. 4 Even. Pofls.

The following Gentlemen, whose feats in Parl. have

been vacated, have been unanimously re-elected, viz. Will.

Fortefcue, Efg; for Newport in the isle of Wight. James

Brudencl, Esq: for Andover. And Thom. Winnington,

Efg; for Droitwich. Idid. Saad

Sir John Chaplyn, Bart. who marry’d Miss Maotrrice

about 3 months since, died of the {mall Pox last Saturd.

atter 11 days illness. at his feat of Tetly in Lincolnshire,

aged about 19. We hear he made a will, and left bis

Lady (Daughter of Mr. Morrice of Clare-market, who is

{aid to be with child) his sole Execurrix. Ibid.

It was the Hon. Will. Leveson Gower, Eig; who was

married to Miss Grosvenor, St. James's and Lon. Even.

We hear that the R.H. the E. Ferrers, having for a

considerable time had the misfortune to be disorder’d in

his senses, is by the great care of Dr. Monroe fo entirely

restored, that this day he attended the R. H. the L. High

Chancellor of great Britain, who was fo well fatished

with his Lordfup’s present condition, as to order that his

Lordship may have frec liberty to go where he pleates.

nad Evening.

a died at Brentwood, the Lady of Sir Thoinas

Ambrose, Ibide

Yesterday died DrsDod an eminent Physician, at his,

house in Essex-street. Daily Journal.

health. Post Boy.

Tuefd. the Lady of Richard Lloyd Esq; Member-for

Cardigan was brought to bed of a Daught. and both the

Mother and Child died ina few hours, 4 Even. Pofts.

Mr. Hayns, of Leicester-fields is {worn Taylor ia or-

dinary to his Majesty, his R. H, the Prince, and his H.

the Duke. Post Boy.

Circular Letters have been fent by order of the Trea-

fury to all the Receivers Gen. of the Land tax, requiring

them te transmit forthwith to their Lordships an ac-

count of their own estates real and personal; and like-

wife an account of those of their respective securi:

ties, &c. Daily Poff.

Fraipay, May, 29,

Yesterday died at Guildford Mr. Child, a very eminent

and rich Attorney. Conrant.

Wedn. died at his house in Lemon-street Goodmans

fields Mr.Hiil jun. a wealthy Brewer, reputed worth

20001. Poff Boy.

Yesterday the R. rev. the L..Bishop of London began

his triennial visitation at St. Pauls. The sermon wa:

preached by the rev. Dr. Ciarke, Reét. of S. Magnus by

Lond. Bridge, after which his Lordship gave an excellent

charge, Iéid. A very learned charge. D. feurn.

Wedn. last the Assizes ended at Ely, when 1 mzn was

condemned tor hor{e-stealing, 3 ordered to be whipt, and

z to be tran{ported. Daily Post.

Tuesday last Myn Heer Hop, the Dutch Resident, was

married at S. James’s Church, to a Sifter of Sir John Lam-

bert, Bar. Daily Journal

The fame day Sir Rich. Hopkins. one of the Aldermen

of this City, was translated from the Cutlers to the Fith-

mongers Company; on which occasion the Assistants of

each Company were hancdsome ly entertain’d by him at

Pontack’s. Ibid.

Yesterday Mr.Haynes ien. was chosen upper Beadle of

the Haberdashers Company. D. Poff.

The fame day Mr. William Bury was chosen Secretary

of the Scotch Equivalent Conpany. Daily Journ.

We hear, that orders have been feat to the Comman-

ders of the Transports lately hired for Don Carlos’s ex-

pedition to Italy, to fail round to Portsmouth. Cour.

Mond. last being the Birt-day of his Grace the D. of

Bedford, the fame was oberved at his Grace’s feat at

Wooburn-Abbey in Bedfordhire, who gave a very mag-

nificent Entertainment :o the neighbouring Gentle.

men, &c. Poff Boy.

His Grace the D. of Edford lics dangerously ills and

‘tis feared, past all hopes«f recovery, at his feat in Bed-

fordshire. Daily Post.

We are assured, that ths account was without foun-

dation, his Grace being vell recovered of a flight indi{.

position, which did not hinder his going abroad every

day. Post Boy, fune i.

SatTuR»ayY, May 30.

Yesterday being the amiveriary of the restoration of

K. Charles If. was observid by ringing of bells &c. The

L. Mayor and Aldermen vert to S. Pauls, and heard a

sermon suitable to the day preached by Dr. Middleton of

S. Brides. Daily Poff, Ancx:ellent sermon. Courant.

We are informed, that th K. of France has given Al-

derm, Parsons leave to impot his beer into France duty

free, which we hear will e worth him 2 or 3900],

p.ann. Post Boy.

Yesterday her Grace the Dchefs of Norfolk removed

from her lodgings in Poland-street, to her house in Pall-

mail, Ibid.

Wedn. night about 12 a Cnt. took water at Cupids

bridge to come to Strand ftas; who as soon as he was

landed, was knocked down, nd robbed, bya person un-

known, thought to be the vaterman who brough: him

over, it being very dark. 14.

We hear, that the additioal buildings of Greenevich

Hospital will be finished in 2 ronths, when the L. Com-

miflioners of the Admiralty /ill admit about 300 super-

annuated seamen, including dicers, to make up the num-

ber already there 1000. Corant.

Thursd. even. one \IrfTovfon and a boy’ coming up

the river in his boat, loaded wth 2000 !obfters, was funk

by a fith vefel failing over Ir: the boy was drowned,

but Mr. Tomfon faved. Ibid.

The Politicians begin to Jk with some confidence

(but upon what foundation © know not) of a project

of a Truce, or rather a futpefion of the Design of in-

troducing Don Carlos into Ity for 3 years. D. Poff.

The Politicians always talkvith some confidence, and

generally without any toundaon, unle/s when they centra-

dit thew former assertions, iz relation to the double

mateh with Prussia, &e.

We hear that a Peniion oftgoe). per ano. was of

He is in perfect

fered to the B. of Marborough, which his Lordship t

fucd. Crafts-man. 150001. Applebee's Journal.

From Wallingford we hear, that one Ant. Bar bad

3 fons christened at their Church; which his Wife ha@

at one birth, and who were all alive, and baptized by the

names of Shem, Ham, and Japhet. Fog’s Fosrnad,

Durham, May 23. Thursd. a Gent. fon to a Scotch

Knight, riding post from hence for London, {wore he

woud shoot the Boy if be did not hasten: the Boy told

him, he could not: at which, taking the pittol (as be-

lieved) to fright him, his horse playing his head, occa-

fioned the discharge; and he shot his own hand off: i¢

hanging by a little flesh or tendon, he call’d, and {wore

eagerly at the Boy to cut it off, who accordingly did

fo. Upon which he put his hand into his pocker, and

rode on fcemingly without any concern at all: and ‘tis

reporred he would proceed to London. Univ, Spectator.

This morn. died at her house in Great George-street

Han. square, the R. H. Henrietta Count, Dow, of Dal.

kcith, after a tedious indisposition. She was 2d Daught.

to Lawrence late E. of Rochester. London Even.

A marriage is speedily to be consummated between

the L. Brudenell, fon and heir to the E. of Cardigan

and the Lady Mary, youngest daughter to his Grace

the D. of Mountague: after which his Lordship is to

fet out for Brussels and Italy on his travels, being in the

17th year of his age. Ibid.

Monnpay, Funer.

Frid. last John Doyle fent for an Undertaker to New:

gate, to agree with him about his burial, and writ with

his Own hand the following words to be chafed in@

plate, and put upon his coffin, Fobn Doyle died Fune i,

1730, 1 the 31/8 year of bis age. And on fat. the cof«

fin was carried to his ecll for his approbation. Pofl Boy.

After died +e should have added being hanged.

The Rev. Dr. Croxall was lately installed one of the

Prebends [ —— . the Church of Hereford. Ibid.

Sat.morn. his Excell. Hor, Walpole, Efa;

the Court of France. did, iteitaliaianiens

Yesterday, tie eldef fon of John Temple, Ef;

Moor Park, in Surrey, Neph. Mo hi Parton’ =

rived at his Father's house in Pall-Mall, having been a~

broad several years. D. P./2.

Thursd. Sir John Woodhouse was robbed by 2 Foota

pads, as he was going to Hampstead, of 5 guineas: hig

coachman was allo robbed of his money, and floes

buckles. did,

TuEspDay, June 7.

Laft week a washer-woman at Oliver’s-mount was

robbed of wet linnen to the vaiue of upwards of 1<0 |,

being waiher-woman to the Right Hon. the L. Walpole,

and other notle Families; and we hear an Irishman is

taken up on suspicion of the robbery. Comrart.

_ Sat. last orders were given by the secretary at wae

for t Battalion of the first Regiment of Guards, con-

Atting of 709 men, with 4 other Regiments, 2 in Ire

land, and = in Quarters, to be in readiness at an hour’s

Warning to attend the expedition of Don Carlos: the

Guards will embark at the Tower soon after his Maje-

fty’s review, and be reinforced by the other Regiments

from their respective quarters. Po/t Boy.

Yesterday the great cause that has been fo long de-

pending in the Court of Exchequer (before heard in the

H. of Lords) between Co). Harrison and Mr. Mofes

Hart, a Jew, was heard at the Exchequer-Court; and af-

ter a hearing of several hours, the Report was confirmed

in favour ot Col. Harrison. did.

Yesterday John Doyle and John Young, Highway-

men, were carried from Newgate and executed at Ty-

burn, the former in a mourning coach, and the latter ia

acart: they both seemed to behave in a becoming man-

ner, and care was taken by their friends that they may

be decently intcrred. D, Post.

Mr. Woolfton’s second Part of his Defence of his

Discourses on Miracles, just published, has given such

Offence to the Clergy, that they can’t bear the Sight of

him: Thereupon he was desired to forbear coming to

the Chapter Coffee-House, or they, who resort thither,

would leave the House. Daily Journal.

On Sunday Morning dy’d of the Small Pox at Enfield,

John Spencer, fq: who was Heir to Mr. Spencer, tor-

meily an eminent Merchant, and is said to be worth

150000 1, tho’ he chufes to live in a private manner:

This young Gentleman was his Nephew, and chang’d

his Nsme from Desborough to Spencer by A& of Par-

liament, and was next week to have been enter’d in the

Temple. Even, Poff.

WEDNESDAY, Fune 3.

Yesterday there was a Court of Aldermen at Guild-

hall, when a Motion was made for printing the Rev.

Dr. Middleton’s Sermon preached before the Right Hon,

the Lord-Mayor, a &- Paul's Cathedral, upon the sgth

ee

LC

feof May last; but it Was carry’d in the Negative: Paf-

a Chatres has taken Lodgings in Piccadilly, over-

inft the Right Honourable the Earl of Burlington’s

oufe. Ibid.

Newcajfile, May29. The 25th the 301. Plate was won

by Mr. Charlton's black poem Seige ——— 36th,

10). Plate by Mr. Armstrong’s Mare J/abella, —— 27th.

The {Innkeepers 201. Plate by Mr. Watson’s Horse Care-

less———28. The Gold Cup 50 Guineas by Mr. Hut-

ton’s Grey Horse Cripple. The 401, Plate by Sir

William Middleton’s Chefnut Horse Scitio.

On Wednesday was held a Lodge of Free Mafons, fe-

yeral Gentlemen were admitted; after which, they went

to a Play in their Aprons, ec. the faithful Irishmaa,

with a suitable Epilogue and Prologue, with the Song of

Molly: og; and never such an appearance of Ladies and

Gentlemen were seen together at this Place.

Dublin, May 19. Laft week his Grace the A. B. of

Dublin held his Primary visitation, which he opened

with an elegant speech to rhe Clergy, in the conclusion

of which he took notice of the Papist inhabitants of this

City, abusing a Curate of S, Cathcrine’s in the discharge

of his office, and assaulting him in a barbarous manner;

and declared, that if they would not rest satisfied under

the lenity of the present Government, and enjoy their

own religion quietly, without interfering with the Pro-

testants, he would not take his satisfaction of particular

fons; but would with the utmost rigour prosecute

veral of the principal Popish Clergy, which are now ta-

ken no notice of. Cour, May28.

May 23. Wednesday night a great fire broke out in

the Batchelors Walk, which consumed 3 houses. We

are assured by lette:s from Bel:aft, that all forts of grain

are fold at very reasonable rates: and that they have

found out a new way of catching rats by {nares, 2 boys

there having got in a short time no less than 4 dozen,

some as big as whelps. Mr. Kimberly, the Attorney,

obtained a reprieve till this day, when several thousands

of spectators were assembled to fee him pass by: about

3 this afternoon he got a farther reprieve till wednesday

next. Poff Boy, 30.

From the Pegasus in Grub fireet.

Tho’ the {late} Bishop of Rochester was a great ene-

my to our Society, in the time of his prosperity: yet we

@o not think it at all honourable to take our revenge upon

Him in his adversity; and in a whole body to attack a|

person, who has no power or opportunity to defend him-

self. It is indeed very common, for some particular

Members of our Fraternity to take all advantages against

their Adversaries; but this is an ungemerous way of pro-

ceeding, and such as we think owr {elves oblig’d to con-

demn. Inthe One Epistleto Mr. Porn, cccasion'd by two

lately publift'd, the Bishop is represented as the Plague of

all Churches, a Confounder of States, a Fop in-verse, and a

Bungler in Affairs. We thallnot give a repetition of the

vindication of the Pishop in all these particulars, as it is

Frinted in a Lester t2 the Author of Foc’s Fowrnal: but

we cannot forbear declaring, that it was a generous action

in the Vindicator, whoever he was. And we think it

very proper to insert here part of the Introduction to

that Vindication. * Every body knows that Prelate must

‘ be a stranger to their Quarrel.—He is banish’d from

¢ his Country, from the Conversation of his Friends,

© and even trom a Cerrespondence with all English-

© men; which one would think might secure him

from all attacks of this nature, No Man

ot spirit would strike another while he was down,

or had his hands tied: and this is the condition of that

unfortunate Prelate, If the Authors have fallen upon

this method with a view of gaining the Public over

to their fide, I believe they are mistaken. For 1

rather think it will stir up indignation in every gene-

rous breast, as it did against the Author of the Lovdon

Journal at the time ot this Bishop’s Exile: for even

that Writer’s own party were shocked, to find a per-

fon (suppos:d to be a Brother) fall upon him at that

* Juncture, in suchan unkind, and even unchriftian manner.

VERSES by Mr. C I.

ROM seriousarts. or glorious arms,

EF You bid me feck the palm of fame,

And fly those {weet seducing charms,

That tempt me to a Poet’s name.

Advice, my Friend, is but in vain,

Whene’er in love, or verse we ftray;

The pleasing poison turns our brain,

And we against our selves obey.

Those passions differ but in this:

The maid poffeis’d, we ftraig remove;

Unfated with Poetick blifs,

the more w'enjoy, the more we love.

Would the coy Mufe on me but smile,

Thro’ life’s short {pace !’d ber pursue:

Nor fame, nor wealth, should me beguile?

For her I’d bid ’em both adieu.

I ask not, Fate, the Statesman’s skill,

Realms to direct, and Kingdoms guide,

Wisdom, like Watrote’s, which is itill

More perfect found, the more ’tis try’d.

I with rot fame’s loud trump should breathe

My name with thole that Kingdoms {poil:

Nor do I, for their laurel wreath,

Or envy Casar, or ARGYLE.

To shine in verse is all my aim:

My fondeft with, my darling hope,

Is but to emulate the fame

Of Watter, Drrpen, or of Pors.

FOREIGN NEWsS.

THURSDAY, May 28.

Constantinople, Apr. 9. Some days before P. Thamas’s

triamphal entry into [fpahan, he detached the Col. Ge-

neral with 40,00@ men, to hinder Sultan Effeff, who

was fled towards Schiras, from entring into the Province

of Candahar, his native Country. In Egypt, the troops

of Zulfukar Bey having rallied after the battle they loft

in July, against Kercheck Bey and Soliman Bey, Chiefs of

the Rebels, gave them battle again, not far from Grand

Cairo, and gained a considerable victory, Soliman

Bey having been killed, and Kercheck Bey escaped by

flight; but with the afliftance of the Armenians, he

soon fet on foot another army; which is at present near

Cairo, where they commit great disorders. Daily Poff.

Vienna, May 20. In a Conference at Laxembourg the

18th, the Generals who are to command in Italy, were

appointed, namely, the Field Marshal Count Mercy, and

the Generals Harrach, Veterani, Philippi, Waterborn, and

Keiferwailer, Ibid.

Bruffils, May 29. The 1000 years Jubilee since the

death of St.Hubert, which happened at Tar vuren, was

begun there this day; and a double Oétave is to be kepr

for the greater devotion. The A. Uutchefs will go to

that Castle in ceremony: it is now goo years since the

Infanta [abella celebrated the 900 years Jubilee on the

fame day. Cour.

Amsterdam, Fune 2. N S. Besides the Arabian and

Turkish Dictionary alread printed at Constantinople, they

have pfinted 2 other Books, 1 Fol. of 150 Pages, entitled

Tuchfatil-Kubar: the Author HagiCalifa, and the Editor

Ibrahim Mutafarrica; it treats of the Terreftrial Globe,

of the Sphere and Geography. It contains a Description

of the Venetian Territories, of Albania, the Island of

Corfu, and other Estates bordering upon Turky, andalfo

an account of the Turkish wars by fea, from the taking

of Constantinop'e to the year 16533 with a description

of the Arsenal of Constantinople, &c. The other book is

aquarto of 294 pages, entiticd, Tarih Sayah, that is, The

account of aTraveller, It is a translation of the History

of the late Resolution in Perfi2, written in Lat. [brahim

Mutafarrica, who tranflited it, does not nime his Au-

thor: but as this history is very likethat which Father

Circeau published of that Resolution, it is believed the

Translator made use of the fame Original. This Book

contains the history of the Sophis of Perfiato Schah Hu/-

fein, who was dethroned by Mirt-Mahmoud, or Mirri.

weys, with the history of Sultan Efreff, &c.

Yesterday arrived a \ail trom France.

Moscow, Apr. 28. The Princes Batil and Alexis Dolgo-

rucky, have beenexiled to the Frontiers of the Dominions

of thisEmpire. It is assured, that P. Thamas hes taken a

resolution of making himself matter, if poffable, of all the

conquests in Persia made by the late Czar Peter I. and has

offered the Grand Seignior to ratify the treaty made with

the Sultan Efreff, on condition his Highness will give

no succours to the Muscovites. The Jews have lent that

Prince above 2,000009 of Rubels since his taking Iipa-

han; and the Armenians and Indians have also advanced

considerable fums. D. fourn.

FripayY, May 29.

Extrad of @ Letter from Balaguer, May to. As for

News I can only teil you, that we are preparing with

great alacrity tor aved hoc war. An embargo is laid up-

on all the barques and vessels that are in any Port be-

tween Cadiz and Barcelona, tor the transportation of

troops. Poff Boy

Paris, May 27. Several English Quality are lately ar-

rived; as the Countess of Sandwich, a Lady much ad-

mired here for her fine wit; the L. Petre, and his Mo-

ther the Lady Dowager, as much esteemed for her piety

and exterfive charity. Mr. Parsons is also here, an Al-

derman of London, a Gentlemanextremely well received

at Court, for bis good humour, gencrolity, and down-

right honesty. The Duke de Bouillon bas fet a noble

) example by his lat wilt

in considerstion of

Pomp that attends the Interrment of a Princeof apis

lity, he had estimated the expence that is usually thrown

away on those occasions, and ordered it te be given to

the poor s and his funeral to be performed ia the Gmpleft

manner that could be. Actions are 1332 a half. By

the last letters from Rome, we underflahd that the Con«

clave is just as far advanced in their cleG@tion for Po as

whén they began. The Cardinal de Fleury has had Ie

votes for the Triple Diadem 3 days together, and Car-

dinal Polignac 26. Poff Boy.

Petersburgh, May8. The Empress has not only cor

firmed all the antient Privileges of the Nobility, and of

the Cities conquered from Sweden; but has ordered, that

no Person shall henceforward be admitted to ecclefiafti-

cal or civil offices, who has not studied 2 years in the

University of Dorpr. D. Fonr.

SATURDAY, May 30,

Gibraltar, Apr.6. O.S. Here we have as yet no bas

nefit from our prefeat Peace with Spain, they not ale

lowing us any Communication with them, nor an

supplies to be brought us either by fea or land; nor will

they admit any British Ships from hence, except such

as call at Tetuan for a Bill of health from the Fryers.

They continue in their huts very near us. We are not

suffered to make any ufe of the Mills, or Devil’s Tower.

The mouth of the Mine is walled up, and the Rock

blown away uuder it, fo that there is no getting up to

it. Itruns 90 or 100 yards in a hard folid Rock to-

wards Williss Battery, andabout 5 toot broad, except at

the mouth, which was wide, but cou'd never have the

brought to be of service to them. They keep up Teffe,

and until they are removed from thence, the best patt

of the bay will be rendered unserviceable whenever we

have a mifundorstanding with Spain. At S. Rogue they

continue te build 5 and Algeziras is become a very large

Town. Lond. Fourral.

All our advices from Vienna, as well as from Italy,

confirm us in the Opinion, that the Emperor resolves

not to accede to the Treaty of Seville: And the fame

Letters assure us, that the Grand Duke has con{ent-

ed to feceive the Imperial Troops into his Towas, in

cafe the Spaniards should attempt to land. Fog’s four.

New York, Feb. 16. Sat. last 2 floops arrived here, r

from Jamaica, the other from Caroiina: the first gives

an account, that the Spaniards have taken 14 English

vessels in the Bay; and that a Spanish Pyrate allo lately

took a large floop belonging to Mr. Funiel of Boston,

and in cold blood cut the Matter and all his men to pieces,

saving only the Cabbin-boy. Weekly Journal:

This day arrived the Mail from Holland.

Moscow, May 11. The Coronation of the Emprefe

was yesterday performed here with great magnificence,

St. James's Even, Post.

Paris, Fune2, We are waiting with much impatience

the return of 2 Expreties that have been tent to tha

Courts of Spain and Vienna, and whose answers, we

verily believe, will decide the grand affiir, either of peace

or war: ard it is assured, that the Marq. de Spino!a wil

continue here till che return of both those Expresses,

Lond Even.

Wrowesvay, Fune 3.,

Yesterday in the evening arrived the Mail from Holland.

Amsterdam, Fune 9. They write trom Vienna of the

27th past, that a Couricr was arrived from Florence, ade

viling, that the Grand Duke had again declared against

the Introduction of the Spanish Troops into his Domi-

nions; and that he would aflift the Emperor with Money

to carry ona War, incale of a Rupture. D. ‘Journ.

On Tuesday Stocks were,

South-Sea 103 1 qth, 103 3 8ths, 1 half. South

Sea Annuity 106 t 4th a 3 8ths. Bank 141 1 8th, a

1 4th. India 190, 190 1 haf, a 3 4ths. Three per

Cent. Annuity 96 3 8ths. Million Bank 106, a 7.

Africin 47. York Buidings 18 1 4th, a t half

Royal Assurance (100 1. paid in) 93 3 gths.. London

ditto (13 |. paidin) 12a 1 8th. Bank Circulation 71.

15s. South Sea Bonds 41. 16s. India ditto 51, 8s,

English Copper 31. 15 s. Welch ditto sl.ars,

Prices of Goods at Bear Key on Monday.

per Quarter per Quarter

Wheat —3@ fo 31 Hog Peas ——= 22 to 26

Rye ——22 to 26 Botling Peas ——2:6 to 30

Barley ———21 to 24 Pale Malt — 22 to 29

Oats ——~ 13 to 16 Brown Malt— 21 to 27

Horse Beans 20 to 26)0«— | Tares ————-20 to 24

Coals 22fs. to 258. per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 -— 258. to 38s. per Hundred.

Hops 1729 —— 398. to 558. per Hundred,

Rape Seed 151. to 161. per Laft,

‘The Gourse of the Exchange.

Amsterdam 34 § Madrid 42 3 qrs. a Sths

Ditto at Sight 343 Bilboa 42 1 8th

Rotterdam 34 6 Leghorn ¢1 1 half

Antwerp 35 1 Genoa §4 1 half

Hamburgh 33 ‘Venice 49

Parisat Sight 32 § &ths Lisbon 5s. 6d. 1 half

Bourdeaux at fight 32 1 half | Porto 5s. 5d. 5 8ths

Cadiz 42 shalt a3 8ths =} Dubinii 1 gth

To the Worthy Livery-Men of the

City of LONDON.

Gentlemen,

'y es Votre and Interest are humbly de»

fired for

HENRY RAPER, E%

Citizen and Painter-Stainer;

AN ID

JAMES CHAMBERS, Ef;

Citizen and Goldsmith;

To be Suerirrs of this City and County of Middle-

fex, for the Year ensuing; who are the Two foremost

in the Lift of those Gentlemen that for many Years pait

have been nominated by several Lord Mayors to serve

that Office.

N.B. It bas been unanimously resolved in Commons

Council, that for the future all sheriffs Fines shall be ap-

propriated ONLY towards tmilding a MANSION-

House for the Lord Mayor, fo much wanted to support

the Honour and Dignity of this Great City.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

Specdiip will be published,

UMBER II.

To be continued.

AN AvtTuHoR to be Lert: Being a

History ot th: pait and present Transactions ot the

Members of the Bathos: In whch will be fully and

faithtuliy delineated the character of that modest, inge-

nious, tal’, young Man JeMMy Moore Smyrue, By

ifcariot Hackney.

We, being neither Scholars, Doctors, nor Divines, call

our felues GFNTLEMEN; which fure no body will dey, be-

cause one of u5 is the Son of a Footman, One, &c.

Grub street Journal, N° 10.

N. B. Soon after will also be pubiithed, The Gontle-

men of the Danciad. A Poem. By Mr. Suvage, with

a Preface.

Printed for L. Gilliver, at Homer’s Head against Sr.

Dunstan’s Church, Fieet-street,

This Day is published,

Printed on a superfine Paper, in two Vo-

lumes in Quarto,

OME Observations made in travelling

ciough trance, aly, &ce tm the Years 1720, #726 and

31722: Conraiming a large and pariucular Account ot the molt re-

markable Curwiittes an those Countries, es well such as relate

to ther Manners, Cultoss, religious Orders, Ceremonies, &c. as

likewise et thea Architecture, Paintings, Sculpture, and other An-

tiquirics, Which are efteeined molt worthy ot the Observation of

ao Anevith Traveiler. Wah tome shortc Remarks on the Air,

Soil, Proauétions, Trade, Manufadciures of several Places, occasio-

mally :oteriperled. By EpwARD WRIGHT, Eig; iiuftrated with

40 curious Drawings, defiyu'd upon the Spot by the Authors and

engrav'd on Copper by che belt Hands.

Printed for Meilieurs Ward and Wickstead in the Inner Tem-

ple Larne.

mead

Ju published,

THE Law again{ft Banxrupts: Or, a

Treat fe wherein the Statutes against Bankripts.e

explained by feve al Cales, Keiolitions, Judyments, and

Decrees, both at Common-Law, and in Chancery. Toge-

ther with the Learning of Declarations and Pleadings

relating thereunto. To which are likewise added, ] orms

and Directions tor Commitfone:s, and Preecdents tiricr

the perufal fof all Lawyers, Merchants and Tradcfinen.

Sic utere tuis, ut aliena non Ledas,

The fifth Edition. To wiich is now added, An Ap-

endix of ajl the Statutes relating to Bankrupts, to the

Vear 1725. By Tho. Goodingg, Serjeant at Law. Printed

by E.and R. Nutt, and R.Gofling, (Assigns ot Edward

Sayer, Esq;) tor F. Cogan, at che Mfiddle-Temple Gate

Flcet-street.

Fuk published,

Prorosats for Printing by Subscription,

a beautiful and correct kuition of ROBERTI

SLEPHANI Thefaurus Lingue Latine. Compared

with the best Editions ot the Clatiics, the Keferences ad-

justed and supplied by J. MARTYN, F.R.S. and

the whole corrected and revised from the Press by

R. RUSSEL, M.A.

The great Ufetulness of this Work having render’d it

fearce (tho’ it has paffled four Impressions) that the best

Edition is now {eld for at least sixteen Pounds, it is pre-

fumed that the Re-printing of it, with theie {mprovements,

will be very acceptable to all the Learned in Europe

This Work :s to be printed from the last Edition

(printed at Lyons, containing 653 Sheets, divided into four

Tomes) and will be rendered much more ufetul, by citing

not only the Books but Chapt rs of the Proie Authors,

and even the Lines of the Poets; which being adapted

to-the improved Editions of the Clatiics, wedoubt nor will

be as agreeable ro the Studious, as labo. ious to the Edirors.

It will be printed in the fanie Manner, and on 2s guvod

Paper, a8 the Specin en annexed to the Vropotals.

The Price to Subscribers will be fix Guineas a Sett in

Shects; only one to be paid down, two on the Del: ery

of the firstt Volume Cwhich will contain about 1:70 Sheets)

and one more for each of the other three Volitmcs

Some Copics will be printed on a larger Paper tor the

Curious, a¢ nine Guineas a Sectcin Sheets; two .o be pata

down, two for the first Volume, two for the second, one

fo che third, and two for the last.

As soon as 200 are subscribed for, the Work shall be

put to Press,

The Names and Titles of the Subscribers will ba pre-

fixed co the first Volume.

When the Subfer:ption is closed, the Price will be raie

fed to eight Guineas for the small Paper, and twelve the

large.

Receipts for the Subscription-Money are signed by ail

the P:opiictors, whch they will pry into the Hanas of

Francis Child, E44, Alderman, and return it to the Subscri-

bers by Chitfimas next, it there is not suffic.cnt Encowaye-

ment to proceed.

Sub{criptions are taken in by the Fd’tors; and 7 Rat-

ley, at the Dove in Pater-Noffer Row; A Vandenhoeck, at

Virgil’s Head, over-against the New Chiunch in we Strands

F. Cogan, at the Middle-Temple-Gate. Fleet-S:reet 5 and by

the Printers, 5. Palmer and 7. Hvegoifon, in Bartholoxew-

Close.

This Day is PubliMed,

THE LIFE of the Right Rev. Dr.

White Kennett, late Lord bifko, of Pe cidboromns voto

several original Letters of the late Archdidhup ft Can cimory, Do.

Tennison; the late Earl of Sunderland; Bishop he vet &. ans

some curious original Papers aud Records, nevet before pobdliea

And allo

The Fore'gner’s Guide; Or, a necessary and instru&ive Com-

panion, both for the Foreigner and Nacives in che Tour through

the Cities of London and Westminster. Giving,

ift, A general Description ot rhefe pwo Cities, wich an Account

of their respective Government.

2dly. A Description of the Royal Paiaees, Ncdiemens Houses,

publick Butidings, Churches, Streets, Squares, and the inoft re-

niarkable Places in and near the tamuus Metropolis: Wah an

Account of the Inns of Court, Royal Society, publick Waiks, Di-

vertions, remarkable Days, Court Days, Pott Dsys. And,

3diy. A Description of the several Villages in the Neighbonr-

hood; as Chelsea, Kensington, Richmond, Greenwich, Wo wih,

Hampstead; and aifo others more remote, viz. Hamprton-Cuurr,

Wiaclor, Oxtord, Cambridge, Blenheim, New-Marker bHorle

Races, Epsom, Tunbridge, Bath. And,

qthiy. An Account ot the Rates of Coaches, Watermen; and

also the Rates of Post Horses; with the Roads to Dover and

Haiwih. . :

Very ufetul and entertaining both to Foreigner and Naive, and

done into Eaglih and Frepch.

Where may be had,

LOVE LETTERS on all Occasions, lately passed between

Persons ot Dittinétion. Colie&ted by Mrs. Eliza. tiaywoud,

Dleafure with Sorrow, Peace with War allay‘d,

Liberty fer er’d, Hupe by Fear dismay’d;

Imbitter’d Honey, Earnest mix’d with llay,

Are, Love! the Emblems of thy fov’reign Sway.

Printed for, and fold by Francis Cogan, at the Middle.Temple

Gate in Fleet-street.

Books printed and fold by John Brother-

ton at the Bible in Cornhill.

Life of Oliver Cromwel,8vo, | \2ordon’s ‘ -cog. Grammar

Colle&tion of Nove.s, r2mo. | Boyers Dictionary in gto,

6 Vol, or Sva.

D’ Anois Tales of the Fairics, | Blais’s Sermotss, 5 Vol. 8 v0.

3 Vol. r2mo. Shikefpear’s Plays,

Fice Thoughts on Religion. | Adcifon’s Works, 4 Vol,

Pilgrim’s Progress in Svo, | Lockyer's Trade to India

with Cuts, > Vol. Abelard’s Letters

Sp. étaturs, $ Vol. Gartli’s Ovid, : Vol

Prideaux Connection, 4 Vol. | Plutarch’s Lives, 8 Vol.

Musical Mife. 4 Vole 8vo. Don Quixot, 4 VoL

The Dancing Matter, by Mr. } Guardians, 2 Vol.

Fobn Essex, 4to. Ovid's Epiftics

Bover’s Telemachus, 12mo. | Dryden’s Virgil.

Gay’s Fables, Svo.

This Day ig Publish’r,

Beautifully Printed, in one neat Pocket Vo-

Volume, by the particular Direction of

Mr. Samuet Briscor, deceas’d,

The three intire Volumes of

THE Posthumous Works of that cele.

brated Poet Mr. SAMUEL BUTLER, (Author of

Hadibras) in Verse and Prose, Writtenin the Time of the

Grand Rebellion, and in the Reign of King Charks If

Being a Collcétion of inimitabl: Satires, Specches and

Reflctions upon thote Times. Published from Original

MSS. and scarce and valuable Pieces formerly printed

The thi d Edition, corrected. Printed by and for Richard

Reily in Little Britain

Of whom may be had, just published,

FRENCH and ENGLISH PARALLELS; or, the

French Prenunciation made fo easy, that by the Help of

this book alone, with out the Assistance of any Matter

the English Learner may attain the true Pronunciation

of the French Tongue, by a Method entirely new.

This Day is Published,

[Price Four Pence. ]

A General fii/tory of Executions, Numb. Il.

(To be continued. )

BEING a full Account of the four

I

tou: t0.lowing Maicf€tors executed at Tyourn, May

» 1730. \iz. Abraham I sacl, a Jew, and David Aubert,

a Swils, tor robbing tacir Mafteis Thonas Willianis

to. Houte-bre:King. James Dalton, the audacious Sere: t

robbor, Houti-breaker, Foot-pad, Pick-pocket, &c. With

aa ample elation ot his Lite and Adventures, his Pranks,

Phefts, and Kobberics, both by Sea and Land, abrozd

and at home, duwing the Space of above twenty Years,

from tn Ycais of Age to his Death. Also of Hugh

Hougiiton, condemned tor reboing the Bristol-Mail, who

hing d binielf in Newgate, with hs Handkerchief and

Belt. Print: by Ro Newton, at St. John’s-Gate, and

foid by the Booksellers in Town and Country.

Where may be had, Price 4d each.

Nuowb. I, contuining the Lite of Everett, a noted High-

waymish, of Goodburn, a Poet, and of two other Males

ractors.

Num). IT. containing an Account of five Malcfattors,

anda Description 0: 2 laige Gang of Thicves and Cheats,

whicit inicil at Times aj) parts of the Kingdoms of great

'{-toCihcers oc Pavifhes, and private Persons, for guard-

ing agiinit and detetting the said Rozues

Noite, This Work mecting with Encouragement will

be continued every Scions, and tic Numbers reguiaily

pudlithed soon afrer the Execution, and will contain an

Account of Crminals executed and tansported

(iiroughont England, in order to make a compleat Ve-

line ac the Year’s End, when a general Index will bs

eiven for that Purpose. And

On Saturday n xt w.ll be publish’d No. IV. Containing

an Account of the Lives, @e. of Doyle and Young, two

now ious Highwayemen, executed at Tybourn; also of

fx Malcfa¢to:s hang’d at the Heavy-trec, near Exeter,

who were tryd and condemn’d ar the Lent Assizes, held

there before the late Lord chicf Baron Penge!'y

thie

tle

Jul publiffes,

"THE Female Parson, or, Beau in the

Sudds, An Opera, 28 it is a€ted at the Mew Theare

in the Hay-market. By Mr. Charles Coffey, Author of

the Beazar’s Wedding.

Princed for Fran, Cogan, at the Middle-Temple-gate in

Fleet-street, and Lawton Gillver over against St. Dun-

stan’s Church. Price one Shilling.

Where may be had,

The Amours of Phifario and Olinda, or, the Intriguce

of Windsor: A genuine History. Priceone Shilling. Al‘o

An ESSAY founded on Arguments Natural and

Moral, proving the Immortality of the Soul, Translated

from the Original Manuscript of the Archbishop of Cam-

bray. Price one Shilling.

Jul published,

TWO Epistites to Mr. Pope concern-

ing the Authors of the Age. And the Merchant;

on Trade, Navigation and Peace. Designed to give a

new but just Idea, of the Pindaric Ode, and to shew ths

Sciipture Style of the Prophets, highly proper for iz.

Dedicated to the Duke of Chandos,

soth by the Author of the Universal Pafhon.

Printed for Lawton Gilliver at Homer’s Head against Sr.

Dunstan’s Church in Fleet-street.

— ee ees ew

LONDON: Printed for Capt. Gulliver and F. Cogan near the Temple, Mr. Jackson in Pall-Mall, and J. Brotherton near the Exchange, and Sold by J. Roberts in Warwick-Lane, where Letters and Advertisements, &c. are taken in.

[Price Two Pence.]

