The Grub-street Journal.

Numb. 38.

Thursday, SEPTEMBER 24, 1730.

Ecce iterum Crispinus.

The following Letter having been (ent as directed, and re-

wed by the pudlifoer of that Paper, we prove our Impartiality by injerting it bere, tho’ it contains a come

plaint against our Jelves.

Mr. C——n’s 2d Letter, being an Explanation of his First, of Sept. 8th.

To the Author of the Daily Journal.

a% Am an Irishman who have pa/s’d thro’ life?

) being yet very young, with the greatett

Caution and regard to Prodity, having

made several fips, and now am in danger of being deprived of their reward by

the Grub-street Journal. I ately jet

forth some Pieces which were all out

called, The Spacuratists. ‘This Book, they

‘a Fraud and Imposition on the Publick, becaute

before,

fay, is 1p ¢

it consists only of old British and London Journals.’ Is

not this horrid Malice and Virulence thus to throw /can-

dal into Print from bebind a Curtain? Could I give

any provocation, when I only said three years ago, (and

never fet my name to it) the fame thing, upon the pub-

lihing Dr. Sw ’s and Mr. P's Miicellanies, o/z.

‘ That agreat part of “em being printed before, I thought

* jt was Cur/’s, or some other Bookseller’s Fraup wpon the

« publick; but at last I found it was done by

¢ Swift and A-——- Pope: the latter of whom I had

* heard had been often concerned in such fobbs, and hired

* out his Name to Booksellers.” Now I’m {fo modest as

to hope it will be seen, there is nothing but Ma/ice and

Virulence in the first of these Quotations, and nothing but

an Impartial liberty in the last.

adly. This Journal fays, J aecufed that Gentleman of

Fraud. I look’d over the passage, and could find no such

word as Fraud in the whole Period; fol told you in my

Letter; and if it be there, I believe, by my Soul, it got

there since.

gdly. ’Tis pretended I said a slanderous thing, ¢ That he

* had been often concern’d in ‘fobs.’ No, no 3 I was too

wife and too cunning to fay any {uch matter; I cautiou/ly in-

treduc d itwith, I beard fo, and that faves al]; for fureit was

very true before it prov’d a Lye 5 and if it did, was I an

immoral Man for saying jo flight a thing? Surely, surely,

any moral Man may print and publish a Lye, provided he

has but beard it? Now I heard it from people with

names, and without mames; and well I might hear it, for I

was one of them my self. And whatdid I hear of ? Why

of two Books, to one of which he had fet his name, and

therefore, I also cautiously introduced the word often,

which in my Irish Dictionary signifies once.

IT own I am some times mistaken in Numbers, for when

I charg’d them with abusing teva great Characters, I should

have said only one. But pray, can a Alatter of Fad be

called in English an aéu/¢? For if not, I should not fay

they abus’d that ove neither? Some of my Enemies, the |

Wits, will have it, that if Mr. Congreve did actually com-

mend a Nobleman for a certain thing, it was no abuse to

fay he did; and if that Nobleman did not do the thing,

It was no abuse to fay he did not; but that the only acute

on Mr. C- -——- had been to fay, he flatter’d a Nobleman,

or told a falfhood; to prevent which abuse was the very

Purpose of that Paragraph. Well, if I have wrong’d them,

{ will do like my honeit Countryman the Witness, who

When he had sworn an innocent Man inxto @ Plot, was

ready to swear him out agan.

The truth is, I thought every Body took this for a re-

flexion, because Zdid: and it muit be allow’d some people

are not fo quick as others, at tuning either a ‘%e/? or an

Obligation. I did take what they call my Obiigations to

Dr. Swift to be only Civilities; now how I return Civili-

tics, fee my Journal of November the 27th, 1727. I

ever injur'd bim, for L only fay, he's a Divine that [cat

ters Fire-brands, Arrows, and Death; 1 never gave into

Private scandal, for IT only izy he’s a Lavrctuoner 3 D never

us'd fou! Languacze, for Lonly calli hin / i7.:t, Mali- |

ag Potfoncus, &amp;e. A -——cle’s Libels aid 1 nundred

tmes Worse; but those I did not write, | srinted

them, )

This I do not deny 5 nor tuat dase walt dui

rent ways, for Money; but I Icave it to three halves in

four of my Countrymen and Journalifts, to judge, if I’m

not a Moral Man for all theje fight things ?

I desire you to publish this Paper, which must be true,

for it is my own account of my self. M. C.

We think this Gentleman in the right to appeal to the Judges of his own Country : for his Reasoning and

Language are not understood in ours. What were his

Obligations to Dr. S--—, it is certain no body ought to

know better than himself. Yet we cannot but doubt whether

he does or no, for three Reasons, which this Letter has

furnish’d us with. First, That a Man who {fo little seems

to understand the nature of an abuse, may as little con-

ceive that of an Obligation. Secondly, That he is one

who looks upon the very fame things and words, as In-

juries in others to him, and only as Impartial liberties in

himself to others 5 and lastly, One who thinks there is no

manner of harm in printing and publishing a Falshood to all the world, provided he can but say he has heard it.

We return him therefore to that obscurity he desires, with

no other mark of distinétion than what, the

has fet upon him for having the boldness to attack

his betters, unprovok’d,

To the Secretary of the Society of Grub-street.

SIR, Cambridge, Sept. 16.

I Am afraid your correspondent from Oxford has mistaken Mr. Whifton, when he represents him as reflecting

On metaphysics. "The words he quotes from him are these.

* Metaphysical fubtilties have some times had pernicious

* consequences, even against common sense and common

‘ experience’. To prove this, he instances in the cafe

of Dean Berkley; who, he tells us, asserts, that * Matter

* is not a real thing’: and adds, ‘ though I am not able

‘ to answer his premises, yet I do not atall believe his

© conclusion’.

Now all this { take to be unworthy of Mr. Whifton.

For, to talk of the pernicious consequences of any f{cience,

the design whereof is to assist the mind in the search of

truth, seems to be very unphilofyphical : but, To prove

such an assertion, by such an initance, in such a manner ;

is an absurdity, fo great a man. could never be guilty

of. Metaphysics have had bad consequences. HW’ hy?

because a metaphysician has reason’d amils. 4s how ? he

asserts that matter is not a real thing. Ard where's the

absurdity of that ? I don’t believe it, that’s enough. 4yd

here's the harm of it ? 1 leave that to you to judzs,

This is certainly a weak way of talking; and Mr.

Whifton ought to be appris’d of it, that he may do him-

self justice: the rather, because, in my poor judgment, Mr.

Berkley is in the right: though, were he in the wrong ;

I cannot think of one pernicious consequence his notion

can be chargd with. He wellenough forefaw what would

be objected to his principles; to wit, that they banish out

of the world every thing, that is real and {ubftantial in

nature. His answer is punctual; which you will add for

Mr. Whiiton’s fake. * I do not argue, fays he, against

‘ the exiitence of any one thing, that we can apprehend,

either by sense, or reflexion. ‘That the things, I fee with

my eyes, and touch with my hands, do exist, really

exit; I make not the least question.

Whole exiitence I deny, is, that which the philosophers

call matter or corporeal {ubitance’: and, in doing of

this, there is no damage done to the rest of mankind;

wao, I dare fay, will never mifs it. The atheist, indeed,

wil want the color ot an empty name, to support his im-

piety: and the phtlofophers may probably find, they have

| loit a great handie for trifling + but that is all the harm I

| can fee done Yours,

. Lal -~ w~ Lal

Fairu-and-Trorn.

The underwritten are by the Author of the Ode to bis

Grace the Duke of Buckingham.

FE Uneus, bya peculiar knack,

Cou’d money draw from griping friends ;

When, of his Word, he’d bounce and crack,

And {wear he’d make them rich amends.

O&gt;serve : now he the Rhino's got,

‘The favour’s vanish’d from his mind :

Alixe the friend and loan forgot,

He gives his promufe go the wind,

The only thing, ;

The following Copy of verses was sent by a Gentleman,

hand

To my Ingenious Friend Mr. Bonewitz, on his drawing @

But lately it was buzz’d about,

Func was another creature grown §

Had stopt the clamours of the rout,

And juflly paid each man his own.

I, with the rest, had learnt by wrote

This change, resolv’d that all should know it,

Alas ! I quickly chang’d my note,

When Fame declar’d poor Fung a Poet.

who writes bim/elf Philo-Grubeus. They seem to be

corit with some spirit, which made me insert them in this

paper, tho I differ in sentiment from the Author.

Difte docendus adbuc, qua cenfet Amiculus.——e

Oe or Cambridge Wag, attend

The hum-drum Counsel of a Friend :

For Politic quit Lib’ral Arts ;

To Party sacrifice your Parts:

Yee glofs your Pensionary Zeal

With pure Regard of Public-Weal.

Write not like Drapier, orJohn Bull ;

But Ministerial be, and Dull.

Propose as Patterns of thy Pen,

Stiff H -——, pert B--—~, evafive B—,

To R —— fawn like Spaniel Dog,

Growl like a Mungrel against Fog:

’"Gaintt Caleb shew your grinning spite,

And {nar], tho’ impotent to bite.

Hop’it Thou a P—— to be made ?

Then defecrate thy Holy Trade 5

Clasp thy old-fashion’d useless Bible g

Write a prdlix infipid Libel :

Was’t Thou a Deke, or a Seer 3

What then? if yet no Pamphleteer.

At all reveal’d Religion laugh,

And idolize the Golden Calf.

Enjoy’it Thou a Poetic vein,

Fiétion will find an ample Plain :

Absurd A s commend,

And blund’ring T s without end.

Haft Thou a Valent for Dispute?

Prove H——. wife, Le H——— no Brute: }

Whether France D— does repair,

Nor is, nor ought to be our Care :

That Human Treaties cannot bind

The Lawless Power of Sea or Wind ;

Louis and Neptune are Great Odds -

And who would fight against the Gods ?

To thew by Dint of Logic strive,

That Merchants most by Loffes thrive 5

Demonfirate that a Sp Fleet

Can fail at anchor, peaceful beat :

But argue not in Form and Mood,

Leit haply You gre understood.

If fond of Wit, to Virtue prone,

Thou scorn’ft to turn a scribbling Drone 5

Mark the Prophetic Words of Grus,

Thou'lt live and die a learned Scrub.

I take the following Verses to come from the fame

curious Picture of a Chelsea-Penjioner, aged 110.

H O* thy all-mimic Pencil well can trace

Each foiteft Feature of dear Chloe’s Face 5

Her cheek can rival in its native Die,

Can strike the living Brilliant of her Eves

Nicer the Task, and bolder the Design,

To paint this Vet’ran in his bright cecline,

Who bravely has o’er-leap’d Live’s stated Line.

The wond’rous Man ona new Stage appearsy

Green, and triumphant o’er the ipoil of years $

His Term protracted to uncom:.on Lengths

Surmounting Dotage, He acquires fresh Surength,

Rejery’d the Hero seems by Leav’nly Wu,

A rare Occasion for thy matchless Skill :

Nature well-pleas’d may with her Fav'rite party

Safely confign’d to thy immortal Art.

Yours, &c.

[Page 2.]

LONDON.

W.E. Whitehall Even. Post.

2% Boy. L. E. Loudon Even. Post.

Fy Daily Po.

a oe “op

. site

e "&gt; - ff)

zo L. J. Loudon Journal.

9 Daily Journal. F. Foo’s Journal.

EP. Evening Po?. Cr. Craftsman.

S.J. Farues’s Even. Pop. Un. Sp. Univer{al Spefator.

Ls: portant articles omitted in our last.

Mr. CowJdter, an Ale-feller at Worcester, falling off his

horie at Tewksbury races, another horse ran over him, and

billed him. 8.9. W.E.10.—On wedn. a Gent. and

2 Ladies taking water at Deptford, he fel} overboard 5 and

1 of the wonien, endeavouring to fave him, fell in also:

but fevers! boats being near at hand, they had assistance,

and were brought to shore and put to bed [together I fup-

gé,) oud are ike todo well. C. 8S. Ff. W.E.12.—

‘Tucid one Kelly, Apprentice to a Shocemaker in Vine-

fircet, hang’d humielt, because his fwest-heart refus’d to

roraile him marriage,’ and reficéted on him as illegitimate.

fe was buried near S. Giles’s Pound, and a stake drove

firough hin. S$. ¥. WW. £.-—~- Sat. morn. Dr. Dou-

elas’s Coacheman icil out of the hay-loft in his sleep, and

trigtured his fkull. 2.14. S.4%.15.-—-~- Yesterday dy’d

in Cimatter-house-square, of the dead palfy, Mrs. Weltfield,

a widow Gentlewoman of considerable fortune, D.F.15.

Thursday, Sept. 17.

A fine monument is ereled in Clapham-Church, near

that ol h’s wiles, to the memory of Dr. Martin Lifter, 2

geurrous Beneiettor to that Parish; for whom a ferrAon. js

pre ched annually on the fir ti sunday in Axyutt, pursuant

to his lit will and testament. P.

The ccleprated Mrs. Oldfield, who was thought irreco-

veravlc, is now much better. Jdid. F mu? own my

Sef one of thaje who thought her irrecoverable; and am glad

to bear, that (ve is now grown much better.

Tuesday last a commutee of the Commissioners for Q.

Anne’s bounty met at the Lottery-oflice, Whitehall, in or-

der to elect a perlfon in the room of Mr. Eéton, Register,

decerfed; and Mr. Barker was chosen. J4/d.

Tuetd. night Mr. Junes Watson, Printer, was taken into

cuncdy of 2 of his Majesty’s meffiengers, for printing a

Pang iivct encitled Protchiaus, or, The character of an Evil

Mounsicrs written at Paris by Mr. Charles Forman, and

€ciicated to the RH. Sir Rob. Walpole. D.P. D. F.

S.F. WE. LE. The Evening Pott, inflcad of

Tueidsy night, fas This day fe’nnight last.

We hear that on fund. Mr. Newport, a young Gent.

of 5 or 6001. per ann. im Flertfordshire, having fallen in

love with a young Woman that was servant at a Gill-house

in Devereux-court, married her very honourably, and fet-

tled 100 |. a year jointureon her. Ibid. 4 Even. P.

Tucid. Even. 2 Gentlemen of Doctors Commons, a

De étor end a Proctor, were robbed near Tottenham by 1

Highwayman, mounted on a black mare, as they were

coming in a coach to London. Jdid. 8. fF. —y—

This High-way man ought to be prefecuted to the utmost in

Doétors Commons; ard a kh rit should be issued out De

Excommunicato ¢apiendo

We hear trom Cambridge, that they have not thought fit, in regard to decency, to comply with that part of the will of Dr. Green, deceased, as directing his body to be

anatomized, and his skeleton to be set up in the library

there; and have, on the contrary, eaufed his body to be

interred. EP. S.J. L. E.-~ This greater regard to

decency, than to the will of the decsafed, may perhaps

forfeit all title in law to the legacy of this Great Philo-

Sopher, who certainly knewo the propercft ule of bis dead

body: and the apprebension of /ceing bis difatished Ghof

walking in the Library, may dinder as ntany Scholars from

frudying there, as the fight of his Skeleton.

The Page of the presence to her Majesty, charged with

a robbery on Hounslow-heath, has been discharged by Sir

Ja. Thornhill and Capt. Bodens, the 2 Jutlices that ene

uired into the affair: and Mr. Vanderplank, one of the

Persons who accused him, having affronted Mr. Monroe,

a Gent. of the King’s Wine-cellar, he corrected him pub-

lickly in the Whiteshart Coffee house at Windsor. Mr.

Vanderplank hath since left that town. = S. F.

This week Sir Rob. Walpole bought a fine mare of Mr.

Fitzgerald, an Irish Gentleman, for 40 guineas, and made

a present of her to her R. Highnets the Princess Emelia.

doid. a fine pad: P. Emilia. L. £. Usa. Sp.1g. Ame-

lia. Cr.

Yesterday Rich. Sumners, Esq; a Kentish Gent. kiffed

his Majesty’s hand, on his being appointed one of the Commissioners of the Excite in Scotland. §. F. Som-

mers. L. E£.

Sat. last the new Church at Limehouse was consecrated

by the B. of London. ZL. E.

Mond. night Mabella Eaton, alias Gwinn, who keeps

the Crown Tavern in Sherrard-street, St. James’s, fitter

to the nosorious Mary Philips, was ggumitied to New:

gate, for beirg accessary 0 2 felony eoinmitted by Mary

Sullivan, in stealing a pair of diamond ear-rings, and for

harbouring and concealing her, knowing her to have com-

mitted the felony, which is a capital offence. One Hearn,

an Irish man, taken at the said Eaton’s, reputed her Bully

or Captain, not being able to give any good account of his

way of living, but appearing to be a dangerous Fellow,

was committed to Tothill-fields Bridewell to hard labour.

E.P. Her chief Bully: to beat hemp. S. 7. L. £

It is certainly very hard labour, when an Irish Bully

is forced by beating hemp to prepare a rope for bis own

neck : Tho’ this seems a contradiction to Butier’s oljcrva

tion, that

— —— Little villains beat

Hemp, for the service of the Great. ,

Frivay, Sept. 18.

A great number of Felons caft for transportation at the

Assizes in divers Counties hath been lately brought to

Town, and put on board 5 and last sunday the ship fell

down to Gravesend. And there being a sufficient cargoe

for the present, ’tis said the Felons in Newgate, ordered

for transportation, will not be shipp’d off "till after next

Sessions. C.

Yesterday at a General Court of the Bank, the Dire&amp;tors

declared a dividend of Two 3 Qrs. percent. for the half

year duc at Mich. next. P. D.P. D. F.

Hen. Heron of Crefley, near Boston in Lincolnhhire,

FEfg; died the roth. He was formerly Enight of the dhire ,

for that county. D P,

Yetertay Marmaduke Hart, Butler to the R. H. L.

Colerain, was committed to New-prison, for attempting

the detestable fin of Sodomy. Ibid. 4 Ev. 19.

Wedn. last Mis. Sedgwick, widow of the late City

Chimney-sweeper, hanged her self at her lodgings in Cole-

man-street. D. F. mmm Lcould not but pay the ref/ped

due to the Quality of this Lady, by inserting this account

of ber death; tho’ I frequently take no notice of the deaths

of Persons of less Quality, which are daily published in

the News-Papers.

SATURDAY, Sept. 19.

We hear that the buyess of Tea having petitioned, and

represented against the resolution of the Court of Directors

ot the E. I. C. to fell Tea in private trade, contrary to

a resolution made and declared to the Tea Buyers in July

last, that they would fell no Tea ’till next March sale, are

resolved to pursue all proper measures to induce the said

Court to adhere to the former declaration. D. P.

Since the correction of Mr, V--——k at Windsor, (men-

tionedintheS James’s Evening Post) another necessary piece

of gorreétion has been administer’d to a drunken Cobler at

Hampton-Court. "Tis said his crime was having founda

key to that whole affair; tho’ some people are of opinion

that he must be -n excellent artist, who could paint that

extraordinary proceeding in proper colours. D. F.

We hear ,that the Town will shortly be diverted by a

Comedy of Mr. Fielding’s, call’d, The Modern Husband,

which is said to bear a great reputation. Cr. I don't

understand how a Comedy /o little known can Ze {aid to

bear a great reputation.

A few nights since the top of the Exchequer-office in

the New Palace yard at Westminster, was robb’d of lead, to

a very considerable value. Um. Sp. D.P. 4 Ev This

eas some little ttupid Rogue, who would venture his neck

on the top of the Exchequer for a /itt/e lead, when at the

bottom be might have found gold.

We hear that Sir George Cafwal, Governor for the pre-

fent, of the Welsh Copper Company, lately made his fare-

wel speech, and that the shares of the said Company have

since considerably risen. F.

John Trapps of the Tower of London, Gent, one of the

company and corporation of Monyers, for his great know-

ledge and ingenuity, was unanimously chosen in [into] the

lon. Post of Provoit. P.

The East India Company yesterday bought a great quane

tity of white broad cloaths; which being fo beneficial a

branch of the trade of this nation, it is not doubted but

other Companies will follow their example. Jd.

Some days ago Mr. Major Smith, who marry’d Mrs.

Anne Bond, who caft Col. Charteris, was arrested in some

fort of actions by persons employed in that affair, viz. one

action for 181. another for 16e01. but the young man fays,

he owes them nothing, and hath given bail to the actions,

being resolved to fee them out. We are well assured that

the Col. hath no hand in this affair. D P. 4 Ev. -—— J

wouder at the allurance of my Brethren in vindicating the

Colonel’s reputation by such an Innuendo.

One Mary Muffet, a woman of great note in the hun-

dreds of Drury, who about a fortnight ago was committed

to hard labour in Tothillefields Bridewell by 9 Jutlices,

brought his Majesty’s Writ of Habeas Corpus, and was car-

ried before the R.H. the L. C. Justice Raymond, expeting

to have been either bailed or discharged: but her commit-

nent appearing tQ be legal, hig Lardihip thought fit te re-

mand her back again to ker former place of conTnemene.

where fhe is now beating hemp in a gown very ric. :

with silver. E. P. §.F%. Where to her no imal! m «4

tion fhe is fti!] beating hemp, and bestows many hear r

fes upon her Lawyers, &amp;c. HW”. E. —- There is femme

fiftency in the Accounts of these Hiftcriens. This Lidy's

Gown very richly laced with silver dies net well cerce with

her no small mortification in performing the Penance of Les

ing hemp; tho’, Lown, fle jecms not wirrindjul of Ape

wedneféay, in bestowing many hearty curses upon her Lave

yers, which perhaps they dejerve by having atied fir ber.

Monpbay, Sept: at.

Saturday, the 8 Turn-pike men, committed to Newgate

and the Gate-house, were examined before the Commifiio.

ners; and ordered to be discharged, paying their fees. ¢,

a Friday D. P.

he fame day about 3 their Excellencies Hor. Walpole

and Steph. Poyntz Ejqs; landed at Whitehall. P.

Thursday, his Majesty in Council ordered, that the Par.

liament which stands prorogued to the 24th, should be fyr.

ther prorogued to Nov.19. P. D.P. D.F.

Friday, the Directors of the East India Company made

c oice of Franc. Evereft Efg; to be Governor of Fort Marl.

borough at Bencoolen in Sumatra. D. P.

The ship Prince Frederick, lately arrived from La Vera

Crug, has been adjudged unfit for further service, and ig

ordered to be broken up. D. 7.

Mr. Evan Bowen, Porter to the E. of Scarborough, ig

— Porter to the King’s Meufe at Charing-Crofs,

D. P.

Friday night about 11, the Indian Prince walking in Co.

vent Garden, was pick’d up by the infamous Jenny Tite,

who took 2 rings off his fingers, and made off with them,

P. — I think this Lady for the future deserves the title

of the famous Jenny Tite, on account of this amcur with

his R. Highness, who not knowing the use of money cn these

occaficns, might present ber with these 2 xings. J guwe's, that

this Prince svas mot one of the 6 Indian Chiefs, cober Sir

Alex. Cumings chose out when be was in the Charokee

mountains; dat is the 7th, who, as we find in Sir Alex-

ander’s letter, was once before pickgd up by the way.

TuespDay, Sept. 22,

Yesterday, (S.Matthew’sday) the R. H. the L. Mayor;

and Governors of Christ’s Hospital, S. Bartholomew's,

Bridewell, and Bethlehem, went to Christ Church, where

the rev. Dr. Trapp preached an excellent sermon, founded

by the Lady Ramsay; then returned to the Grammar

{chool of the said hospital, where one of the youths edu-

cated there made a handfom oration to them in Latin, ag

did another in English, &amp;c. D.P. S.F. L.E. Preached

a suitable sermon. C. Thanks were returned to the rev.

Dr. Trapp for his excellent sermon; and he was desired to

printthe fame. P. E.P. W.E.

Yesterday the Indian King, Prince, &amp;c. went in a coach

and 4 to Croydon Fair, and were elegantly entertained at

dinner at the George, and afterwards very plentitully treated

with fack and wall nuts, which is the custom of thet Fair.

It is remarkable, that there was the greatest concourse of

peop'e that has been known for several years : and the Kirg

was pleased to express, that he had not been better diverted

since his arrivalin England. Jéid. E.P. W.E.——=

I think it would have deen much more remarkable if the

concourse had Leci less

They write from Ipswich, that the late cle€tion for Bai-

liffs is likely to be contested at law, Sir Will. Barker and

Mr. Quintin being resolved to try the right of 53 difpu-

table voices. Jéid. E P.

It is wrote [written] from Staffordshire, that on the

18th died of a very violent fever the rev Dr. Walmfleys

Dean of Litchfield. D. ¥. £.P. W.E.

Yesterday about 8 in the evening died at Cafhalton in

Surrey, Sir Tho. Scawen, Knt. Alderman of Cornhill Ward.

&amp;.P. Thismorning. L.£. At fre.

WEDNESDAY, S¢éft. 23.

Dr. Newcomb, Chaplain in ordinary to his Majesty, i?

appointed Dean of Gloucester, in the room of Dr. Alix,

promoted to the Deanery of Ely. D. P. D.F.

The late Richard Topham, E‘q; did by his will be

queath his library, worth above 7ocol. to the Cotton library

ak Oxford. Ibid.

Her Majesty hath fettled 30]. per Ann. on Srephen

Duck, who was aThrefher in a Barn at Clarendon Park

in Wiltshire; and likewise given him a little house in Rich-

mond Park to live in, on account of his several ingenious

poetical compositions, He was brought firit to Court by

the Hon. Mrs. Clayton. dd.

On faturday last, the Lords Commissioners of the Ad-

miralty, put the Garland man of war in commission, and

gave the command thereof to Capt. Cockade. P.

Yesterday died Sir Peter Eaton, Knt. one of the Common-

Council of Tower Ward. 123i.

The Indian King and Prince were not at Crovden- Fair, as was reported. C.

[Page 3.]

c :

From the Pegasus in Grui-street.

| Thursday, Sept. 24, 1730. Yesterday morning John

Salter Efqs an eminent Linnen draper, was unanimously

chosen Alderman of Cornhill Ward, in the Room of Sir

Thomas Scawen deceaied.

Tho’ we have more than once declared the impartiality

of our design in publishing these Memoirs; yet we have

peen unjuttly represented as favouring one Party 3 and some

wrticular Persons, more thin others. But whatever ap-

.arance there may be of this, it has been al] accidental.

We disclaimed at first in Numb. 3. all ingagement in Poli-

tical Controversies 5 which are carried on every week with

fo much wit and learning on both fides, by private Mem-

bers of our Society. And whatever we have published in

relation to those Disputes, has only concerned the way of

managing them, the coherence or incoherence of the argu-

ments, the mistakes in history, the itile, &amp;c. all which pro-

rly fall under our cognizance, -and of which we think

ourlelves obliged to take notice, on either fide of the que-

fion. Whoever therefore has a mind to oppose any thing

advanced in this Paper, may do it in the Paper it felts in

which we shall insert every thing, whteh we think has a

tendency to the discovery of the truth. Of this we should

have given a remarkable instance, had that learned Author,

Tue Cursory OBSERVATOR, fent us his Defence, prinied

in the Courant of dug. 11. in an{wer to some Remarks in

our 3ift Journal. = ,

As to private Persons, who may think themselves reflect-

ed upon, our conduct would have been the tame: and they

have been invited to fend us their Answers; particularly in

our Journal, Numb.19. And we should certainly have

published Mr.Concanen’s Letter, printed in The London

ournal of Sept. 8. had he communicated it to our Society

in manuscript.

As to all copies of verses, which appear in this Paper, they

are put there, as Pieces either of wit, or of stupidity; with

little or no regard to the subjects upon which they are writ-

ten. The Authors of which may be concluded to be alto-

gether unknown, unless we give some account of their

names as of persons known to us. And since, next to the

quickness of repartee in conversation, the imartness of a reply

in poetical controverly is most agreeably surprising , we shall

always be glad of every opportunity of entertaining the Pub-

lic with instances of this nature. The ingenious Francis

WatsincHamM E(q; is in the-fame way of thinking: who

in his Free Briton Numb. 36. printed an incoherent, unin-

telligible Epigram taken from our 30th Fourva/, in which

it had been inserted without our approbation. ‘To this

Epigram he added a fmart Reply s which, if he had {ent it

us, we should have thought ourselves obliged in hongur

to have published, tho’ it propoted a riddle to us, which

has hitherto puzzled our whole Society.

In short, since it is impoflible to know the truth, withe

out knowing what is said on both hides, and since that will

appear with clearer light in one and the fame Papers we

shall observe the conduct above-mentioned, as often as we

shall have opportunity, as being most agreeable to justice,

and contributing moit to the information and diversion of

our Readers. Bavius.

equate s~arowscar we Or ON

S. Andrezus, Sept. 8. On Aug. 31. one Will. Bell, aged

23, was feiz’d with a moit violent inflammation of the

glands about the head of the wind-pipe and gullet, fo that

he could {wallow nothing. aud immediate death appeared.

Upon which Dr. Geo. Martin of Clermouth, and Dr. Symp-

fon Professor of medicine in this University, having ordered |

all the usual means, which proved ineffectual, ordered Mr.

John Drew a Surgeon here to perform the operation of

Bronchotemy, (that is, opening a hole in the wind-pipe,

below the inflamination, and introducing a Miiver pipe or

Canula) which was no sooner done, than the Patient had

immediately free breathing through the pipe; and in 4 days

the inflammation went of: and this day he breathes very

Well at mouth and nofe, eats and drinks, walks about his

chamber, and writes to his friends. P. 5.9. #.E. LE.

Edinburgh, Sept. 14. Lait friday even. Sir Rob. Stewart

of Tillicoultry, Bar. was married to Mis Calderwood,

daughter to SirWill. Calderwood of Polton, one of the Lords

of the Session. §.f. WE. L.E.---We hear from Berwick,

that the week before the last, the famous Marg. Dickson,

who was hanged in the Grafs-market about 6 years ago,

died at that place. On receipt of which good news, her

husband took up his Trump, and entertained the Town of

Musselburgh with musick and dancing for a whole day. P.

— The death of a wife, who was fo unreasonable, as to

live 6 years after fhe had been hanged, cvas no doubt a fub-

frantial matter of joy to this Widower; whoye mirth was at

seaft as since re on this occasion, as that of sir Robert at bis

wedding.

Dublin, Sept. 12. The King’s plate of 160 guineas, run

ron the Curragh, on wedneiday.was won Uy 4 mare be-

longing to M. Kating, E:q3 called Ki/s me,

catch me. ——— Two pick-pockets guariellinz wu

Market-house, one ttabb'd the other fo deiperni-'y,

wu

e- + sh

hoaee ad

‘ey / ‘ '

died in a few minutes. —~ A bepgat woman twas lately

taken up here, for ftcalititg a child, and blinding it to move

pity. C.P.. E.P.. 8. J. Oui Be 19 Sunday Jaf,

in the Diocese of Offory, died the Rev. Sir John Staples,

Bar. C. §.F. W.E. A child of 6 years old was

ravished in the Corn-market by one Gill, who, we hear, Is

confined for the fame. D. P.

Dudish, Sept. 15. Yesterday Ja. Brooks, a soldier in Col.

Otway’s regiment, was shot for desertion. From the Pro-

volt Marshalsea to the place of execution, he continued

{wearing and curfing, and invoking vengeance on all the

officers: some he said were gone before to hell, others he

hop’d.to drag along with him, where he hop’d to be up-

on alevel with them, if not advanced to greater power.

Before he came out, he burnt his shirt and thoes, as a Lu-

natic, in hopes that would fave him. But at the place

of execution, (where for an hour he behaved madly) the

first men who fired miffing hin on purpose, he was jo

shocked, that he immediately fell down to pray, and begg’d

time to call for mercy; and in a few moments was shot

dead. A Grenadier, who was the forwardeit to dispatch

him, was presently after seized asadeferter. P. LL.

FOREIGN NEWS.

THuursvdary, Sept.17.

Yesterday arrived the Mail from France.

Moscow, Aug 20. The Infant Don Emanuel, brother

to the K. of Portugal, resides in the Palace of Prince Men-

zicoff in this city, before which is plated a guard of go men.

The Czarina has confirmed by a decree the establishment of

the Academy of Sciences and Arts at Petersburg; which isjto

continue to assemble in the Palace built there by the late

Czar PeterI. But her Majesty has ordered a certain num-

ber of Academicians always to attend the Court. D. J. 8. F.

Paris, Sept. 23. Whe Ablé de Nivelle was arrested and

committed to the Baftile; and there was found in his house

a box full of prohibited papers. And that day was found

likewise, at the house of a sword-cutler, a press made ufe

of for printing the said papers. C. ?. D. F. EP. WE.

The Queen began to receive visits the 17th. The Actions

are about 1340. Ibid. 8. F.

Venice, Sept.1. Letters trom Milan advise, that Count

Flavio Rezzonico and tie Marquis Julio Brivia had fought

a duel without the [ait Gate, in the pre‘ence of the Mar-

quefles Fiorenza and Novati, whom they chose for their

Seconds § and that the former was run through the thigh,

and an Artery veing cut, he died upon the spot. They

add, that the earthquake which was tel: some days ago at

Milan, was more yiolent at Lugano, where it demolished

the chappel of our Lacy upon the mount of the Varele,

and several houses thereabouts. JY. E.

Fripay, Sept. 18.

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from Holland.

Rome, Sept. 2. Cardinal Cotcia, having ask’d the Pope’s

eave to go to Benevento for change of air, for the reco-

very of his health, was answered, That if he had a mind

for change of air, he might have it in the suburbs of Rome,

but mutt not stir out of the Ecclesiastical State. His Ho-

liness has appointed an Apostolic Vicar at Benevento, and

has reserved to hinielf the disposal of all Benefices; fo that

Card. Cofcia, the Archbishop, has no more authority there.

The Congregation of the Chambers has ordered the

Cardinal to reRore to the Apostolic Chamber 36,000 Scudis,

arising from a pension obtained of the ijate Pope, as if he

had been one of his Nephews, and of which he had re-

ceived 3 years advance. ‘They have alio demanded a relti-

tution of 500,000 Scudis, which he made the Apolto-

lic Chamber pay hiin, tho’ not due. ———-They have

allo ordered M. Negroni, formerly ‘Treasurer, to pay iim-

mediately into the Chamber 40,000 Scudis, which he owes

it; belides 53,000 owing by M. Compositani, which had

been di/posed of by order of Negroni, unknown to the

| Chiumber. -——- On monday, M. Pratti, a Beneventine,

| a

was committed to prison, with ali his Domettics; and the

lane day an inventory taken of all his effects: amengit which

they found 40,000 Scudis in gold and silver, 30@ Spanish

Pitoles, bills for forme 1oe0 Scudis, and 10,022 ounces of

silver Plate; all which were carried to the Apostolic Cham-

ber. M. Genoveti, hearing this, broke the seal put on

his effects, and fled away, with all the money he could

carry off. C. D. F.

SATURDAY, Sept. 19.

VeRerday arrived three Mails from Flanders.

Vienna, Sept. 9. N.S. Our last letters from the Porte

assure us, that the army of the Grand Signior had begun

their march towards Periia; his Highness having paiied

them in revietv. C. ”

Hamburzh, Sept. 13. From Swerin we are advised, that

the D. of Mecklemburg having made some Proposals to

S:aiesiome of the of that Dutchy, they excused themselves

. returning an answer, under pretence that those Pro-

: Were contrary to the Imperialordinances. Jdid.

Br fels, Sept. 18. [tis taid here, that the ship, taken by

the English in the river of Bengal, had no lading bata

} ® we. 4S sc SOP a ot og # i ' @

little Salt-pethe and forte fhells 3 that fhe was fent befors

to try the passage, and was to have becn followed by the

other ships, if the coast had been clear. Fsi#.

Mofeow, Aug. 24. The D. of Liria, Embaffador from

his Catholick Majesty, has received orders to ecntinue here

the next winter. On the 18th arrived an Officer from

Derbent, diipatch’d by Gen. Lewafchaw, who brought

on account, that the Serafquier, after the battle near Taus

tis, wherein ‘he loft 3000 [30.000] mgn, durit not even

continue under the fortifications of that city 3 but had

separated his. army, and retired 30 leagues backwards,

to wait for the succours marching towards him: and that

P. Thamas was departed from Upahan,-with a con‘iders

able train of artillery for Tauris, to reduce it, if pollible,

before the arrival of the succours.s D.P. D. F.

Paris, Sept. 20. There have been lately made 3 proofs

of the gold mine discovered in Dauphine: 2nd “tis found

to yield sufficient to answer the working thereof. D. F.

Part of a Letter from Paris.

Shall take occasion to *present you with a Bishop’s letter

to our Cardinal Minister, because it is in a different

flile from what Bishops now a-days write to Fir Minj-

{ters it is fromm the Bishop of Ciflres. The Cardi-

nal having written him a letter, which contained some

admonitions, concerning some opinions the said Bishop had

taken up, not entirely agreeable to his Eminence; the

hop return’d him this answer. * A Bishop, whof con-

{clence cannot reproach him,——who likes the place of

his residence, and has no ambition to live within the

fun-shine of a Court, need fear nothing of what your

Eminence writes to him. As Cardinal, I pay

you respect. -As Minister, I have nothing to detire

‘ of you. As Bishop, I owe you no Duty, fer lam

* your Elder. I, as a Christian, am accountable to

God alone : it is before his great tricunal I hope to rén-

der my self acceptable, where we mutt both of us ap-

‘ pear shortly : and it behoves you, my Lord, to take heéd

leit you should not find the some favour there, asin the

‘ Courts of men. Sign’d, :

Hornore de Beaujeu.

Paris, Sept. 20. The Countess de Lelliers, Lady of the

Palace to the Jate Queet of Franee, died aged 109 years.

She never made use of a Physician, “ull upon this occasion,

and then fhe died. W. E.

Amsterdam, Sept. 22. We have received these further pars

ticulars of the K. of Surdinia’s abdicatidn. He lay the 3d

at Rivoli; and the next day fet out for Chambery. He

designed to have gone without any retinue: but the K.

his fon would accoinpany hiin part of the way. "Ts said

he told his ion, and 2 or 3 others he confided in, a&gt;ove

a year ago, of his design; which secret they faithfully

kept. Ldid.

Mownpay, Sept 21.

Haguz, Sept. 19. N.S. The States General have writ-

ten avery moving letter to the K. of P—, in which they

assure that Prince, ¢ That the news of the unhappy dif-

* ference between him and the Prince Royal his fon, has

© fled them with the deepeft sorrow, &amp;c. P.

Reme, Sept. 6. The ring of 4 or 5000 ctowns value,

which the P. of Waldeck loft, a little before his departure,

was accidentally found in a plait of the gown of a young

Gentlewomin, that lived in the fame house with the

Prince. Jb/d.

Yejerday arrived the Mails from France and Holland.

Moefcow, Aug. 31. P. Emanuel of Portugal departed

hence the 27th to return to Germany, hiving received

of the Emprefsa present of a gold {word fet with dia-

monds. C. &amp;e.

Vienna, Sept. 13. Not only half the garrisons of Neffe

and Weden are on their march towards Adrianorpie, but

the Turks have detached z00@ men from Albania, and

other places thereabouts, to the frontiers of Persia. D. P.

Paris, Sept. 27. On the 22d, the Abbot de Mareuil,

Doétor of Sorbonne, and Professor in divinity, received a

letter de Cachet, depriving him of the chair. Tis comes

of vbjtinacy: the Dolor is a great fickler againf the Con-

are

Vv»

fiitution Unigenitus, and mill not fall in with the fentie

ments of the Court-Bishops. Some mens principles crt

cherifird in their growth by the kindly beams of the funy

and thee will warp to it any way, eaft or weft Others

delight in the hades and theje wifl juffer any thing, ra-

ther than violate what they calla good conscience. P.

Tuespvay, Sept. 42.

Yeferday arrived a Mail from Flanders, and one from

Holland.

Vienna, Sept. 6. We begta to flatter ourselves, that there

will not be any aét of hottility committed this year 5 ‘and

that the most the Spaniards will undertake, will be to pott

themselves in some Hland of the Mediterranean, to be at

hand to begin the Campaign early in the {pring, or to lay

hold of any opportunity that may offer. —~— It has been

forme relict to his Imperial iajesty, to hear from Paris,

that the Minister of Tule.ny, upon i8me Reflexions glanc’d

at the great Dake’s taking the invelliture of Sienna and

Porto-Ferraio, retired from tne Court of France, and is feg

out on hi: return home. P.

[Page 4.]

Hamburg, Sept. 19. "Tis written from Moscow, that

the 30,000 men promised to the Emperor, begin to put

themselves in motion, 2nd prepare to march without de-

lay. Her Czarian Majesty has ordered a new levy to be

made of 20,000 mez, belides an augmentajion of each

company, and apriies herself to bufineis fo earneflly, that

tis fear’ the mey impair her healthbyit. D.P. E. P.

$. 7.

Brufels, Sept. a. The Directors of the Ostend Com.

pany are come here, to make a representation to the Go-

vernment touching the seizure of one of their ships, the

S. Thesefa, by the icnglish, at the mouth of the river of Ben-

gal; since the news of which, the Actions of the said Com-

pany are fallen to G3 or'70 per Cent Ibid. S.F. WE.

Barceloxa, Sept. 10., Ail the men ef war, being 18, fee

fail this day. Tine Captains have orders net to open their

commifims ‘till ticy come toa certain height; fo that

what place they are deigned for is yet a ‘ecret, but it is

generally Lelisved tuey are to return to Cadiz. Jé/d. E.P.

L. E.

VEDNESDAY, Sept. 23.

Vefterday arrived a Mail from Flanders.

Fragment of a Letter from Berlin, dated Scpt. 12. N.S.

i ‘Eople here ave not iorry that a certain great per-

‘ ionage iiicarried in his designs not out of any dif-

respect to him, but because they imagine, that if he

had succeeded, it might have flirr’d up an irreconcile-

*‘ able difference between two great Princes, and engaged

them in a war, which in the consequence might have

* inveived most of the Princes of Europe.

* Col. Sp... . 1, whowas the unfortunate personage’s

* friend upon this occasion, will take care of himielf, where-

* ever he is; for should it be his fate ever to come here

again, at leait during acertain term, we are fearful what

would befall him.

¢ Ie is whisper’d here, that........... the

Cueen!... i's 6 o's 6 6 SOMO MOPe sas.

ooo mofin!........... Rununciation !

. Prince William Auguilus! 2.

A“

On Tuesday Stocks were,

Seuth Sea 103 1 8thto1gr. South Sea Annuity 108

rgr. to3 Sths. Bank 144 tor the Opening. India 188.

Three per Ceat. Annuity 97 1 8th. Royal Exchange Af-

furance gt i half. London Assurance 12 3 8ths. York

Buildings 234 half. SouthSea Bonds 51. 10s. Premium.

India ditto §1. 16s. ditto. Million Bank 108 3 qrs.

Bank Circulation 5 1. per Cent. Premium. Benefits 1710

be qr. Years Purcnale. Nevis and S. Chriilopher’s De-

nt. 6 per Cent. Discount. English Copper 31. Ss.

Welih ditto 21. 10s.

The Course of Exchange.

Madrid 42 3 4ths

Bilboa 42

Leghorn 51 1 half

Genoa 54 1 4th

Venice 48 7 Sthis ¥

Lisbon 5s. 5d.a7 8ths 6

Porto §s. 4d. 7 8ths

Dublin 10 1 half

Amsterdam 34 8

Ditto at fight 34 5 a 6

Rotterdam 349 a10

Antwerp 35 3

Hamburgh 33 4

Parisat fight 32 5 8thsa thalf

Bourdeaux at fight 321 half

Cadiz 42 5 8ths

Prices of Goods at Bear Key.

per Quarter per Quarter

Wheat ——zo to 26 Hog Peas —— 16 to 22

Rye —— 12 to 16 Boiling Peas— 22 to 24.

Barley — 16 to 20 Pale Malt ~~ 22 to 28

Oats —12 to, 16 Brown Malt—19 to 22 6

Horse Beans 24 to 26 6 | Tares —— 20 to 22

Coals 20s. to 26s. per Chaldron.

Hops 1729 — 29s. to 39s. por Hundred.

Hops 1730 -- 39s. to 56s. per Hundred.

Rape Seed 10]. 10s. tori). per Lait.

eq eww en es =

rT my .

ADVERTISEMENTS.

This Day is published,

THE Lihe of MAHOMET. ‘Vravstatced irom the French Ori-

ginal written by che Count ot Bolainwiliers Avior of rhe Fre-

Seas State of France, and oi the Hiforical Memoirs theicto iubdjoined.

"Tis tyme, Compoting /s the Nob/er Part,

But good Travsicionis no easy Art. Roscommon.

Printed for W. Hischiiffe, at Dryden’s Head under the Royal-Ex-

change.

On Thursday nect will be puhlitter,

The OCCASIONAL WRITER, N° II.

OLD by the Booxleilers and Pamphiet-Shops of London and

Westminster. Price 6c.

Where may be had Numb. I.

N.B. If this Number shoula be pyraced, as was the lat, some Me-

S

This Day is pudtifher,

ANEW IMPRESSION of

THE Works or THE ORATORY, by J. HENLEY,

M. A. containing, 1. Oratory-transactions, Numb. I. being Mr.

Weiltead, (not the celebrated Pogt) his Narrative o; che Reverend

Mr. Henley’s Liie, the Occasion, Defence, and Plan ot the Oiatory,

and the cwo Sermons at Opening ut, with the Rules of the Conte-

rences and Disputations. Price 1s. a. The other Numbersbeing,

1. The Primitive Liturgy and Eucharift, as used in the Oratory, with

two Sermons on cache Price 1s. 2+ The Littot SupjeGs, the Dil-

courses on Nonsense; and on A@ton: The Burcher’s LeGure; the

Errors of Painters, in Church-paintings, aud Images; Pr. 3s. 3. Milk

tor Babes. or an Answer to Mr. Huggins’s Presentment; Oration on

grave buffoons: Remarks on the Sermons ot Dr. Trap, Dr. Croxail,

and the Bishop ot Briftoi, on the 30th of January; Prognofticks of

Hell-fire 5 Dispute between Mr. Guyfe and Mr. Chandler; Sion in

in perteét beauty, or the heaven of heavers; an Introdu@ion to an

English Grammer; Pr.gs. 4 The Reed of Egypt peircing the hand

that leans upon it, or a Demonstrauon that the Bishop of Lon-

now's Arguments in his 2d Pattoral Letter ovER THROW His OWN

Rexviciox; N.B. This laf is notto be bad without the Setr, which

is 108. To be had at the Booksellers of London and Westminster,

or at the Oratoty in Lincoln’s-Inn-Fields, by Clare Market,

The following PLAYS are to be sold for 6d. apiece, at Mr. Joun

Ossonn 's at Dock- Head, ncar Horflydenn, and at F. Cogan’s

at the Middle Tempiegate.

Plays in Quarto.

SCorniul Lady. Wit without money.

nian. Chances. Custom of the Country, Wite fo: a2 month.

Wit at several weapons. Coxcoimte Bonduca. Bloody Brothers.

Maia’s Tragedy. Wcmanenarer. Humorous Lieutenant. Love lies

abiecding. Double marsiage. Island Princess. LoyalSubje&amp;. Love's

Cure. Prophecefs. Pilgrim. Rule a wife, and have awiie. Beg-

gar’s bufh. Maid in the mill. Ad these by Beanment and Fletcher.

Art ul husband. jane Gray. Governor of Cyprus. Perfidious drv-

cher. Liberty aflerced. Scowrers. Vircuolo, DukeofGuife. Mat-

facre of Paris. Love’s patadife, French puritan, Perplexed lovers.

Love in awood. JuniusBruotus. Epiomweilis, Injured love. Phi-

lufophy no detence agaii ft love, Perfiap princes. Cheats. Ulysses.

Amorows bigot. Peroila_ and Ifadora. Arfinoe, Queen of Cyprus.

Faife triend. Wornan’s wit.

Plays in OP ave.

Imperial captives. Kenfirgeon gardens, Cafar in Aypt. Hen-

ry1V.of Fra'ce. Spattandame. English chevalicr. Whigandwory.

Javader ot hiscountry. Ariuul wite. Antiochus. Love and liberty.

Rival generals. Roman aétors. Faults on both fides. Loveina to-

rest. Lottery. Sulancfs. Henry VI. Edwin. Ball of Saguntum.

Female fop. Female parion. Henry V. Revenge. Hibernia treed.

Fatai legacy. Capricious lovers. Lady’s philosophy.

Plays in Twelves.

Sir Walter Rale ph. Perpiexed couple. Country wife. Don Se-

battian. Londonewk Ide. Loveinatack. Apparition, Bold stroke

ter awiie. Sterol kdaugbter. Noah’s vod. Baflertable, Injured

virtue. Scipio Alruanus. Vetticoatplouer. Slip. Clouds. Britan-

nicos and Alexander. World's Idol. Litigents. Victim. Persian

Pincefs. Richmond fletrefs, ‘I. cenham court. Half-pay officers.

Cockoidsimske themselves. Achaltah. Wireco be lett. She pailants,

Veridious bro:her. Lecdy’stuiumphe Woman's a siddlc. Britton.

Duke of Gigncetter. . ;

Where may be had great Variety of Nevels. Prise6 ds each,

Spanish Curate, - Valenti-

- oe ee eee es

BOOKS printed ior JoHN BRoTHERTOR, at che Bible next the

kicece Tavern in Cornhill.

Blar’s Sermons, 5 Vols.

Life of Oliver Cromwel

Gordon’s Geog. Grammar

Boileau Oevie poecigue

Palgrim’s Progrets

Tales of the Fairies, 3 Vol,

Engiith Tutor

Mitical DiCionary

Shakespear's Plays

Congreve’s Works

Gar.h’s Ovid

Camben’s Lritannia

Burkic on the New Testamene

Litstrange’s Jolephus

Tillotion’s Works, 3 Vole.

Becom’s Werks, 4 Vols,

Loks Works, 3 Vel.

Olvenburgh ot bachanges

Acdilen’s Works, 4 Vois. $to

Pufflend 1f's Law ot Nature

Bailey’s Didicn:ry, rol,

W vod’s Iniftitutes, tol.

Carckas’s Rates, fol. Boye:"s Telemachus

Steveas’s spanuh Dictionary Meige’s Scate of Britain.

With Variety ot fiogle Plays and Pamphiers.

Fuk Wublifher,

(Price Trice Shillings bound.]

HE Ac of Heraldry. Containing, Ll. The Original

and Mnivertality ot Arms and Ensigns, with their Use

and Neceflity; their Blazon, Distribution, Abatements, and

Kewards of Honour, IL. Of diverie kinds of E:coicheons

and of the bearing or using the Ordinaries in Coat Armour,

iit, Of Coat Armour form’d of Artificial Things, whether

Civil, Ecel-tinstical, Military or Marine, such as are made

by man, ortorhs Use. IV. OF Charges in Coar Armour

ioimd of Ceieitia's, as the Sun, Moon, Stars, Angels, &amp;c.

Ot Vegetadlis, as Trees, Flowcis, ilants, Fruirs, &amp;c. Of

the Parts of Mun’s Body, as the Hands, Legs, Arms,

Heart, &amp;c. Of An'mils, as Lyons, Lygers, Horses, Stogs, &amp;c.

in Whole and in Paris. V. Of Chirves fron Fowls and

Birds of all Sorts, in Whole and in Parts. VI. OF Charges

from Fits of al! Kinds, in Whole and in Paris. VII Of

Chare-sfrom Monitrows Aniinals, in Whole and in Parts

Embyliivd with Forty Copper Plates, containing above

goo Corts of Arms of the Nobility and Gen:ry of G cat

Detain and Iveland, euriously engravon, with their pa-ticu-

ley Deteviptions, and by whom born. Interipers’d with the

Natural History of the fiveral Species of Birds, Beats,

Fithos, Vegetabless &amp;c. comprehend ua therein. Together

Wit Occasional Explications of all the Terms used in the

Science of Heraldry, and peculiar thereto. To which is

pecfix'd, An Alphabeticrl Litt of the Namms of th. Fam:-

lieS whote Coats are delineared in the Book, with Referenc s

tu the Pass where they are to be found. Printed for J Os-

borns near Docl:-Head, in Southwark: And Sold by 4,

Bettcctworth in Patcr-Nofter Row, and F. Cogan at tix

ghod will be taken to prevenc it for the tucure.

omen + 8 ere one

Milidle Temple Gat, Fleet-street 1770

. Te be Sols,

By RICHARD WARE, a the Bible

at Amen-corner,

AV large Quantity of large House Bibles in Folio. To which

is since added, A briet Concordance tor the more e2!y finding ou

the usual Places therein contained. By J. Dowxamer, 3B. D. And

also fix Maps of sacred Geography.

1» Shewing the Siwation of Paradice.

a+ The Peopiing of the World by the Sons of Noan.

3- A Plan of the Holy City of Jeruialem, with a view of Solo.

mon’s Temple.

4: The Holy Land divided into Twelve Tribes of Isrart, &amp;,

Se The Land of CANAAN.

6. The Travels of St.'? aut, and the rest of the Apottles, ver

neatly bound in Calves Leather, at al. 68. per Books cill the whole

is diiposed or.

and Sun in Warwick-lane,

Where may be had, lately published,

1. A curious Sett of Bible Cutts; containing near 300 Histories

engraved by Mr. Svux, beund ap with the above B.bie, at al. 5%

per Book. Fine Paper at 31. 35

2- Impartial Churchman: Or, afair and candid Representatinn of

the Excellency and Beauty of the Church of England. Together with

an eurne&amp; and affectionate Address to the Protestant Difienters, By

Robert WARREN, D.-D. Price 35. 6d.

3. A Treatise of Archite&amp;ure, with Remarks and Observations

that excellent Master thereof, SEBASTIAN LE CLERC, Knight of

the’Empire, Designer and Engraver ot the Cabinet to the late brench

King, and Member of the Academy of Arts and Sciences. Necessar

for youmg, Peopl, who would apply to that nuble Arte Engraven on

18; Copper Plates. By John Sturt. Translated by Mr. Chambers,

Price ¥5 8

4: Embiems for the Entertainment and Improvement of Youth,

containing Hieroylyphical and ALngmerical Devices relating to al}

Parts and Statiens.t Lite, together wii Explanations and Proverbs

in French, Speullh, itelan and Latia, siludiag to them, and transla.

ted into Engithe The whoie cuiiousdy engraved on 62 Copper

Piates. Price 2¢. 6d.

ss The Compicat Constable, directing Constables, Headboroughe

Tything- man, Church-wardens, Overseers of the Poor, Surveyors of

the Highway, aud Scavengers, in the Duty ot their Office, accord.

ing to the Power allowed them by the Laws. Price rs.

6. Trad-favan’s Guide, Containing a Lift of all che Stage Coaches

and Carriers; wah an Account of all the Fairs ana Market Lowng

in Bogiand. Price 1s.

This Day is publiser,

Which was the Reason of putring ef the publick Commencement at Tri.

nity College, Dubiin, and for whith the Printer there is wnder Prem

fecution.

HE Cewsoriran. A Poem. By Martin Gulliver. Sold bp

» Dodd without Temple-Bar,

Of whom may be had,

x. A Letter from a Lady to her iiwsband abroad, sth Edition.

2. The Batchelor’s Estimare of the Expences of a married Lie, and

Vindication; and married Man’s An.wer.

3- New Reflexions on the Female Sex.

4- The grand Mystery of meditating over an House of Office.

fu Motch Propotal for preventing Children of poor People from bee

ing

Burden, &amp;c. By Dr. Swit,

6. Present State of Ireland considered.

TH

Fuk publisher, .

Ta 2 Vols. Sve. Price bound 10 f

RTY NINE SERMONS by the late Rev. Fibs Cooks

« M. Reftor of the United Parishes ot Se. George the Marsyre

and Ste Mary Magdalen in Canterbury, and ot Merjbaus iu Keats and

one Of the tix Preschers or tue Cathedial Church of Canterbury: From

the manuicripe Copy, prepared by lunself tor the Prets; (there being

several Copies cf fours of ihe Sermons abroad tn Writings filtgramed

at the Request of the Councels of Covemtry, and other Paloosof Di-

findior.) On the tolowliz Heaus and Occattons, vie. Of Faith

Of Happiness. Of coming taChriff. Of Vanity. Of Rightev/ness, Tem-

perancl, aud Judgment socane. Cleanne{s mistaken. Of Goa’s Ommi-

(tence. On Prayer, Of Friend lip ntth God. Of the Emmity of ike

Decil. Of Resolution ia Faith and }ra€ice. Of i roving and Perfa-

vering, The Nature of Cleanness. Naaivan’s Cure. Of Wifiom, Reve-

lation, and Repentance. Cf Zeuiwben commendaiice When faulty. The

Crown of Blifs and Glory, The Rightecus Miaa’s Reward. The Wicked

Man's Lot, Toe Blefjednsfs of Mourning, The Bieffeduefs of “eekne/fs.

Mercy to the Mfereffol, Of Parity in Heart. Of holding faf? the

Fatth. Godly Fear ana Obedience. Cf Covetovfuejs. Of the Sabbath.

Siow preferred. Of Superstition. The Difficulty of Salvation. On St

Peter's Deniale On az Fifth ef November; pieached beiore the Lower

House et Convocation, who requested this Sermon to be prined.

Prinud by £.C. tor L. Girxivern, at liomer’s Head azaiult Ss

Dunstan’s Church in Fleet itreat.

This Day is published,

N APPEAL to the genuine RECOKLS and TESTIMONIES

of Heathen and Jewish Writers; being iull Evipaexsce for the

‘Ys sth of the Chiiftian Religion, and its priiniive Doétiines. In

vera. Conterences. Pare I.

The Trath of che Bottom ts plainly this: All the great Things thas

moderna Deifis affec? to fay of Right Reason, as to its Snffriemy

tn aifcovering the Obligations and Alotives of Morality, 1 only @

Pretence to be made wje of, whem they are oppalirg Cartfiranity.

Dr. Clarke in his Boyle’s Li cturede

Refrain not to (peak when there is Occasion to do Good: Strive fet

the Trath wp te Lieath, aud the Lord shall fight for thee.

Eccluf. iv. 23. 29.

Printed for L Giuxrv».» at Homer's Head against St. Dunkan’s

Church, Fieee-street. Price rs. 6d.

Where may be had iufi pubilh’d, ,

An Essay, foursed upon Arguments Nauta and Moral proving

the Linuneicality or che Soule Translated trom the original Mss. &amp;

the Archbishop of Ca woray. Lrice | ce

LONDON: Printed by A. Moore, for Captain Gulliver, near the Temple, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in.

[Price Two Pence.]

