The Grub-street Journal.

Numb. 39:

Thursday, OCTOBER 1, 1730.

Avia Pieridum peragro loca, nullius ante

Trita folo. Lucret. * IV.

Norwithstanding the following letter is written im praise

of One, who was formerly an Enemy to this Society: yet

was willing to give it a place in our Journal 3 the So-

ciety having resolved to encourage Criticism in general.

Bavius.

Sept. 28. 1730.

Jo Mr. Bavius, Secretary to the Grubean Society.

SIR,

4% OU have not, I think, confined the learn-

ed Dissertations, which have been pub-

lifhedin your Journal, wholly to Grubaean

Subjects: but have some times conde-

{cended to publish Poems and Criticif{ms

on such as may be esteem’d Parnaffian.

This, I suppose, may proceed partly from

your impartiality, and partly from an opinion, that mo-

dernCriticisms are in the province of your Society. Be

that as it will, I venture to fend you some thoughts on

«Poem of a new species, which arose in our nation, no

longer ago than the middle of the last Century: I mean

the inimitable Huprsras. It is some thing strange, that

a Poem, which does honour to our Country, should never

have engaged any /earned pen in its explanation: when a

Writer of the first rank has employed some of his time in

serious Criticisms on two or tnvee of our old Ballads.

I call it a new species of Poetry, because I do not know

of any Poem now extant, which is written in the fame

manner: tho’ the Margites of Homer seems to have been

of this fort, which Aristotle tells us had the fame relation

to Comedy, which the J/ias and Ody/ey have to Tra-

gedy. The way of writing, which Homer introduced in

that Poem was new: for those, who before him brought

inlow characters, wrote in a very abusive manner, which he

laid wholly aside, treating them only with pleasantry and

ridicule. What other rules were observed in that Poem is

unkown, they being probably contained, together with

those concerning Comedy, in Aristotle’s second book of

Poeticks, which is loft. Now as our Author had no opportu-

nity of seeing either this antient poem, or the rules, which

were to be observed in writing after that manner; we

may very justly, in my opinion, allow his poem to be an

Original. And, tho’ perhaps he never read Aristotle, or

any other critical writer, yet nature and good sense taught

‘him to write infuch a manner, that I shall not fear to en-

ter upon his examination, by such rules as we find in that

Prince of Criticism.

But before I procced any farther, it will not be amifs

to consider, what name ought to be given to this kind of

writing. Some have called this piece a Burlefgue poem;

but that name, I think, belongs more properly to those

poems, in which a thing in its own nature serious is

turned to ridicule. Otherscall it a Mock-Heroick 3 but this

seems rather to express those pieces in which ridiculous aéti-

ons are burlefqued, by being related in heroick verse. Nor

can I, with others, call it a Mock-Epick 3 which name is no

more proper to be given tu this Poem, than that of a Mocé-

Tragedy, to be ascribed to Comedy. Give me leave to

call this way of writing Huprprasticx, in honour of

this excellent example now before me.

‘ The Hupisrastick, for fo I now take leave to call

It, is to differ from the Epick, as Comedy does from Tra-

-gedy. It must be narrative like the Epick: it must, like

that {pecies of Poem, have its Fable, its variety of Cha-

ratters, and its proper ftyle: but all these in such a man-

ner, as to move not terror or compassion, as in T'ra-

gedy; but laughter, as in Comedy. The Farre mut

be form’d by the narration of one, entire, ridiculous AAi-

on: the CHaracters mutt be such as either occurr in low

life, or are in their own nature odd and ridiculous; and

these in as great a variety as possible: and the Sryie or

guage muit be contrived so as to heighten the ridicu-

loufness of the representation.

The Ation of Hudibras is the Knight’s setting out on

& {eries of ridiculous attempts to gain the heart of a per-

verse Widow, with whom he is in love. It begins with

@ revival of his paflion, which had slept for some time;

and concludes with his utter disappointmeut. The whole

% carried on in such a manner, as renders the principal

Actors fuficiently ridiculous.

There is the greatest variety imaginable of odd and low

s. The Knight and Squire are exceedingly odd 5

and at the same time entirely different. The several per-

fons, who compose the Bear-baiting mob, are admirably

well drawn, and keep up their own low characters when

ever they are introduced. The Widow, the Astrologer, his

Man, the Lawyer, are all excellent in their kind, and

consistent.

The Language in Hudibras contributes very much to the

ridiculousness of the representation, by the odd, and often

new words the Author makes ufe of, by the measure of his

verse, and by the very Rhymes. Iam not ignorant, that

some have reckoned the double Rhymes as a blemish in

Hudibras; and it has been objected that they are of no

ufe 3 because they could give no wit to any passage, which

had none before. This is certain; but the fame may be

objected to the Rhymes, the Numbers, or the Measure of

any Poem. Verse itself cannot give cither Wit or Sense

to a mean or foolish thought: but it can heighten them

where they are already. The fame may be said of the

double Rhymes in Hudibras. They give no wit, no ridi-

cule, to a flat or dull thought or expression: but they

heighten the ridicule that was otherwise in the represen-

tation itself. I could produce many instances of this, out

of my Author: but at present shall beg leave only to pro-

duce one, which J believe every impartial Reader will al-

low to be a Relation highly ridiculous, and yet more fo

on account of those Rhymes, which I have endeavoured to

vindicate.

Mean while th’ incomparable Co/om

To aid his Friend began to fa// on:

Him Ralph encounter’d; and straight grew

A dismal combat ’twixt them two:

Th’ one arm’d with Metal, th’ other with Wood 3

This fit for Bruise, and that for Blood:

With many a ftiff thwack, many a bang,

Hard Crab-tree, and old Iron rang.

While none that faw them could divine

To which fide conquest would incline:

Until Magnano, who did envy

That two should with fo many mez vie,

By fubtle stratagem of brain

Perform’d what force could ne’er attain.

For he, by foul hap having found

Where Thistles grew on barren ground;

‘In haste he drew his weapon out,

And having cropp’d them from the root,

He clapp’d them underneath the tail

Of fteed, with pricks as sharp as nail.

The angry beast did straight resent

The wrong done to his Fundament:

Begun to kick, and fling, and wince,

As if h’ had been beside his sense;

Striving to disengage from Thi/?/c,

That gaul’d him forely under /i; tai?.

Instead of which he threw the pack

Of Squire and baggage from his back$

And blund’ring iti!) with fmarting Rump,

He gave the Knight’s fteed such a thump,

As made him reel.

If you shall condescend, Mr. Bavius, to publish this

Criticism onan Author, by no means of your Class; and

give me leave to present you with some farther observations

on the fame subject; I shall esteem it as a favour done to

Your constant Reader,

and humble Servant, M. F.

The following letter comes from an eminent member of our

Scciety-

Dear Bro. Bavy, Salishury-court, 10 Sept. 1730.

RAY advise me what todo. Ihave been fo bold as

unluckily to draw mytself under the resentment of the

tremendous Deputy Warden of the Fleet, as you'll fee by

the enclos’d *: on the publication whereof, his terrible per-

fonage was pleas’d to fend a Mirmidon of his, more than

once, for me to come to him to answer for my audacious.

ness; and because I fent him word I was engag’d at home

in my common affairs, he haughtily fent me word, he

would make me come to him; which I as haughtily replied; Tt must be when Iam in or near the strong

* Penny Post, Sept. 7.

| Littler, a noted Stocking-maker in Spittle-helds. D.

see

Room. Then he fent another of his milder Tools to ex.

postulate with me about this affair, to know the reason

why I would venture to publish it, after our brethren the

Daily Post, Daily Post-Boy,, cum multis aliis, had refafed

it. Itold him I thought the Letter would shine in my

Paper since it had glitter’d under his hand. Iam inform’d

he is forcibly procuring a subscription, under the hands

of a few persons unhappily under his care, to carry on@

prosecution against me: and that another subscription is

voluntarily fet on foot by the rest of that house to defend.

me with their Lives and Fortunes.

I desire you'll lay this before the Society, that I may

have their Advice next Journal-day.

Your readers and mine admire your Journal takes no no-

tice of the Society’s good old brother

G. P. Philomath. and Ephemerift.

I cannot but think our learned Brother much to blamé,

to insert the Letter he alludes te, without first consulting¢

the stars about .the consequence. I am of opinion, how- |

ever, that if he can but keep out of the frog rocm, his ad-

verfary will hardly be able to do him mutch harm.

The following Letter is written with some warmth: but as

the toriter of it seems to be stirred up by no worfea mo-

tive, than a great concern for the honour of bis countrys

I could not refuse it a place in this paper.

Mr. Bavius,

| Generally buy those books that come from the Univer-

fities, and have great expectations of pleasure and in-

struction in the reading of them. I was lead by that cu-

riofity to read an Oration upon the Beheading of Charles

the first, lately spoken at Cambridge, but printed here, by

Mr. Taylor, Fellow of S. John’s College.

Town to you, I was much surpriz’d to meet with any

thing fo vehement and hot upon the subject at this time

of day: but I was in a sweat and trembling when I came

to those words, page 23. ab infami illa & in omnem me-

moriam exfecrabili Scotorum gente nundinatum, addiftum,

auftionatum (Carolum) that nation of Scots infamous and

accurs’d to alleternity! What immediately follows upon

the whole English nation, a /uis demum judicio fifti,——=

but I won't meddle with that; let them Joe to it: Iam

of the number of the —— and execrab/e.

Now [ask you, Mr. Bavius, and you, Mavius, with-

out paflion, Whether this pert Fellow of a College is nog

very much to blame ? Whether he does not really deserve

censure and punishment for such a horrid outrage upon a

whole nation? Surely he intends to be Fellow of a Cole

lege, and enjoy his femno &F religionibus, as he expresses

himself in the 19th page, as long ashe lives: (I hope he

will) otherwise he would never have talk’d at this rate,

and fet his name to such grievous words. "Tis much none

of those gravifima capita that heard him should keep him

from printing fo terrible a Declamation; especially when

it might be easily proved, that ’tis contrary to History and

matter of fact; and not only fo, but in almost every page

false Latin. See the very firit sentence, Vix arbitrabar

Sore, eum quidguam proferre oportere. I humbly conceive

that fore, eum oportere isbad Latin. It should have been

thus: fore, ut is, qui verba effet fa€turus, quidquam

ferre necesse haberets or to that effect. If the Profeflor of

Humanity at Aberdeen had had this sense to expressin La-

tin, he would have done it perhaps after this manner,

Vix credideram fieri poffé, ut is, qui ex hoc dicendi loco

verba eft taclurus, quidquam proferre necefe haberet, quod

vel ad invidiam hominum levandam, vel ad {ui muneris rae

tionem vindicandam f{pectare videretur. Iam yours,

CaLgponivs.

In our last, under the article from the Pegasus, 1. 32. read

The Daily Journal.

LONDON.

W.E. Whiteball Even.Post.

L. E. London Ever. Pop.

L. J. London Journal, _

F. Fog’s Journal. fe ‘a

E. P. Evening Po/?. Cr. Craftsman. PANE

S.J. Fames's Even. Post. Un. Sp. Univerjal Spatigs

Important articles omitted in our last. DSS aA

Yesterday at EIackney died Mrs Littler, Wife Garrg>

iC Cory,

C. Courant.

P. Post-Boy.

D.P. Daily Pof.

D.J. Daily Journal.

[Page 2.]

iy

se A

On friday Will. Best, Master of Will’s Coffee-house in Corn-

hill. C.21. ——- On sunday Mr. George.Colton, boot-

man to his Majesty. P. 22.

THuurspbay, Sept. 24.

On the 16th, at S. George’s Spaw in Southwark, was an

entertainment of martial musick; the Compositions were

by Mr. Bapt: Grano: at which were present {ome persons

of the firit taste, who expressed their admiration to a won-

derful degree. C. --Yesterday the Indian King, &c.

were at Mr. Jordan’s, the famous Organ-builder in South-

wark, where they heard several Organs 5 particularly that

fine one made for Holy-Rood Church, Southampton, with

which they seemed extreamly pleased. D.P. S.F. LE.

The satisfaction which these Persons of the first tatte

received from these different forts of Musick, is bere ex-

prefed in a very different manner. The Indians only

seemed extreamily pleated, (a vulgar way of {peaking ) dwt

the others expressed their admiration to a wondertul, or

admirable degree. An admirable expression ! ;

The Publick may be assured, that it was the unanimous

opinion of the Court of Directors of the East India Com-

pany, that the private-trade Tea should be fold next sale 5

Which resolution was unanimously confirmed by the next

Court. Ibid. D.F%.——Yesterday they appointed Da-

vid Wilkie to be Commander of the Heathcote. C. D.P.

E.P. W.E.

The fame day died in Albemarle-street, the Lady Hariot

Vere, Sifter to the Dutchess of S. Alban’s. D. P. Daugh-

ter to the late Awbrey de Vere, E. of Qxtord: Dutcheils

Dowager. P. E.”. W.E. —~ At Mile-end died John

Elwick, Efqs formerly an eminent Linnen Draper in Corn-

hill, anda Director of the East India Company. C. P.

D.P. 8.7. W.E. L.E. Edlick. DF. Ellick. E. P.

It is certain that David Polhill, E'q; Member of Parlia-

ment for Rochester, is made Keeper of the Records in the

Tower of Londop. D.P. 4 Ev. P. + aie

The King having been frequently disturbed in his foli-

tude in the little Park at Windtor, by foine rude petitioners,

and particularly on sunday last by a German woman,

who grew very outragious, when fhe was told that it was

an improper place to present petitions in; the Guard has

since been doubled, to prevent any insults of that nature

for the future /d/d. Lam glid, that no Englih Wo-

man has yet been fo impudent.

Laft friday fe’nnight, between 5 and 6 in the morn a

fire broke cut at Mr Gritlith’s, a great Ditliller at the up-

per end of High-holborn, by leaving the head of the itill

off, and the {pirits boiling over: but with much dilhculty

the Hames were put out. E. P.

The London Evening-Polt, contrary to all the other

Papers, jays, that }. Tophain, Eiqs bequeathed his Li-

brary to the Cotton Library at Cambridge.

We hear that the drawing of the present Lottery at

the Hague, is deferred “till Octob. 19. D. F.

We hear from Cambridge, that the rev. Dr. Adams

was last faturday elected Matter of Sydney Sulicx Coll.

L. &.

Fripvay, Sept. 25.

Yesterday a nimble little Drawer at che Baptist Head

Tavern, Old Baily, ran up to the gillery of the Monu-

mient, and down again, for a considerable wager. He had

3 minutes to do it in, but performed it in 2 minutes and

half, and 2 seconds: as he was running down he often cry’d,

Coming, Coming, Sir. C.

Wednesday night, as a Rogue was getting into the D. of

Bedford’s house in Bloomsbury-{quare, he was shot dead

by the man who was fet to watch the house,&c. D. P.

SaTruRDAY, Sept. 26.

Yesterday John Smith, a Hackney Coach-man, convicted

before the Commissioners for licensing, &c. for exacting more

than his fare, and fined 20 s. was by them committed to

Newgate ’till he pays the fame. C. D.P. 4 Ev.

Lait night the corpse of the Marg. of Annandale, after

lying in state in the Jerufalem Chamber in Weltininiter-

Abbey, was interred there with great funeral pomp and {o-

lemnity. P. D.P. E.P. W.E. L.E.

They have begun the foundation of an Hermitage, or

Hermit’s cell, in Richmond Park; and likewise the delign of

a fine hill of trees, in the manner of a Roman ‘Theatre, by

her Majesty’s order, D. P. 4 Ev.

Mr. Tho. Harris of Dorking was chosen, without oppo-

fition, Coroner for the County of Surrey, at Guilford. /did.

E.P. W.E. L.E, Darking. SF.

Yesterday was held the first Court at Bridewell, before

Mr. Alderman Parsons, the President, since his return from

France; when were try’d, corrected, discharged, and kept

to hard labour, ahove 60 persons. After which received

their charge, as Governors, Mr. Tho. Smith of Alder{gate-

street, Mr. Sam. Smith of Cheapside, Mr. John Hafilel,

Mr. George Blakefley of Cxnnon-street, and Mr. John

Markhain, Apothecary to the Charter-house, and a Gover-

“nor also of S. Bartholomew’s Hospital; who gave the ac-

customed entertainment to several Governors at the Queen’s

arms tavern in S. Paul’s Church-yard. Jdid. 4 Ev. The

concourse of Spe€tators was greatet than ever. was known.

WE. )

Yesterday at a Gen. Court of the South-Sea Company;

the minutes of the last were read and confirmed, and the

names of the Gentlemen last chosen for the Committee of

vii to inspect the Bye-Laws being read, viz. Sir Mat.

Decker, Sir Greg. Page, Bar. Edw. Harrison, Geo. Har-

rifon, Jofi. Wordiworth, Rob. Bristow, and Jam. Cole-

brook, Efqs; they were continued. D.‘F. 4

Thursd. at a Gen. Court of the Welih Copper Company

in Phillpot-lane, for the election of a Governor, and 5

Assistants, for the year ensuing; the following Gentlemen

were unanimously chosen, viz. John Mulcaster, Esq; Gov.

Francis Bateler, Ef{q; Dep. Gov. Pet. Hartopp, Sol. Afh-

ley, E(qss Mr. Cave Wifeman, Mr. Alex. Barham, and Mr.

John Buffar, Assistants. 4 Ev.

The run-away Negroes in Jamaica being grown fo nu-

merous as to render themselves a Terror to the Inhabi-

tants fettled near the mountains; we hear that the Hector

man of war, Capt. Peter Solgard, and the Princess Louisa,

Capt. Digby Dent, are to proceed forthwith to Gibraltar,

where Kirk’s Regiinent is to imbark on board of Trantports,

to be convoy’d to Jamaica; where they are to be im-

ploy’d in reducing the Negroes to their obedience, which

the present strength of that Island has not been able to

effect. D.F 4 Ev.

Thartd. Mr. Beaumortier, aFrench Minister of the Epif-

copal dillinétion, and of a very good family in France,

who ulfed to preach at Greenwich and other places, in

English, shot himself thro’ the head, at his lodgings in

Litchfield-street, with a Piltol, which was found in his

hand after he expired. did.

Yesterday Michael Wills going to the Gatehouse with a

prisoner, the noted Moll Harvey fet upon him, knock’d

him down with a Pewter Chamber-pot, with which fhe

beat him fo violently that his life isin danger. S$. J.

LT think Willis ought to resign bis office to this Virago: the

enjign of wheje authority (pould be a Pewter Chamber-pot.

Tuesday Mr. Stammers and Company went to Rich-

mond, and dress’d a dinner in his Majesty’s Park, and

did after the inanner of the Eastern Nations, according

to their annual custom. JZ. &.

Yesterday there was a seizure of Tea and other goods,

in Rosemary-lane, near the Tower, to the value of 2000].

one of the constables, who attended the officers, was Very

mucn wounded. JL. E.

We hear from Houndfditch, that a righteous Pawn-

broker of that place, under the disguise of a Parson’s ha-

bit, was lately apprehended at a certain Tavern, with a

common Mis of the Town. F ——= For the future,

when I hear any such jcandalous flory of a Clergyman, J

shall conclude he vas (ome Pawn-broker, and not a Parson;

who, if he whores in a gown and caffack, ought to be bang-

cd in the fame habit.

Mownpay, Sept 28.

We hear, that Mr. Atterbury, Son of Dr. Atterbury,

late B. of Rochester, has obtained a warrant under his

Majesty’s sign manual, for leave to go to France to visit

his Father. C. D..

Saturday, the Duke and Duchefs of Bedford fet out from

their feat at Wooburn in Bedfordthire for the Bath, tor

about 3 weeks. D. 7.

The fame morn. ‘Thom. Dugwell, a watchman at Cox’s

Whart, Southwark, was unfortunately killed by a fall, as

is {upposed, into the Thames. His body was tound about

6, jaumed between the piles and a ship’s bottom, with

his thigh broke and his brains beat out. His staff and

lanthorn were found ashore, with the candle turned up.

D. F.

TueEspay, Sept. 29.

Yesterday John Fuller, Efg; and Sir If. Shard, Knt. the

new Sheritis, were iworn at Guildhall, whereupon the

old Sheriffs delivered up to them the keys of the City

Gaols, which they returned again to the present Keep-

ers. C. &c. The fame day was [were] {worn into the

oflice of under-sheriffs, for John Fuller, Eig; Mr. Weltley

of Elme-court in the Temple, and for Sir If, Shard, Mr.

Greenaway of 'Thavies’s Inn. Afterwards the R. H.

the L. Mayor, Aldermen and Sheriffs, were fuimptuously

entertained at a dinner at Haberdasher’s-hall. C.

Yesterday Rob. Johnson, E{q; Gov. of South-Carolina,

and the Indian King and Chiefs, were splendidly enter-

tained by the Merchants trading to that Province at Pon-

tac’s. ‘They went afterwards to the New Play-house in

Lincoln’s-inn-fields, to see the Tragedy of Oroonoko. C.

D. P. Two of them (the most inferior) soon after

dinner privately departed, and were not found when the

company broke up. D. F.

Friday Don Lewis Beaufort, having lately measured the

South-Sea Company’s ship P. William, and found her bur

den under what the Company is intitled to, attended at

the South-Sea house, and presented his certiscate of it,

with the fchedula fhe is to carry to Carthagena and Porto

Belio. D. F.

A Patent is passing the Great Seal, constituting Edw.

Barker, Efgs to be receiver of the Tenths of the Clergy. ~—

Ve

Yesterday the Commissioners of Queen Anne’s Royal B veal

ty, met at the Lottery-oiice, Whitehall s and choie Tho.

Moore, Eq; Secretary, in the room of Edw. Barker, Eg,

At the same time, Hen. Turner, Efg; was made=

ceiver general of the first-fruits. P.

Yesterday the Dutchess of Richmond was safely g.j.

vered of a Son, at her house in the Privy-Garden, White.

hall. P. By the afliitance of Sir Rich. Manningham, p, p

Laft week died in Norfolk the Rev. Mr. Sullin, one of

the Prebendaries of Westminster. P.

Laft week the Camp in Windsor Forest was brok

and the 2 Regiments which were incamped there ar

upon their march for their ieveral quarters. 8. ¥.

This day Hum. Parsons, Efgs the senior Alderman under

the Chair was unanimously choien L. Mayor, for the yea

ensuing; after which the L. Mayor, Aldermen and She.

riffs were handsome ly entertained at dinner, provided for

them at Draper’s Hall by the late Sheriffs. 4 Zu. p,

e Up,

C now

From the Pegasus in Grub-street.

In our 22d Journal we complained of our learned

Brother F. Ossorne, who in the London Journal, Numb,

565. had reficéted upon some of the Weekly Writers of

our Society, as being dilaffected to the present Administra.

tion; and among other severe expressions had inferfeg

the following: * We {warm at this time with State.

‘ Movntebanks, Political Quacks, and Reforming Ver.

‘ min; who, without a shilling in their pockets to buy

‘a dinner, write satyrs upon the age, - and

‘ thro’ meer necessity or malice, lath all ranks and orders

of men, &c.

As to the point of difaffe&tion, we sufficiently vindicated our

Society in our Journal above-mentioned: and as to the nio-

tives of writing in genera], and even thele in particular

here objected against some of our Members, he has him.

fel, upon maturer thoughts, lately published a short but

full vindication of them. His words are these, Lomiy

Journal, Sept.§. Numb. 579. § This week we thall read

‘in the Craftsman, that tho’ Osporne has declared

« against receiving money, yet he has a Place, and expeéts

‘a better. But what has the Publick to do with thee

* private things - his motives or mine in writing ? Suppose

‘ I should fay, that his motives were to get his bread, and

‘ gratify his pride and ma/lice: what has the Publick to

‘ do with it? The only thing is, whole argument is right,

* or whole fas are true.

This frank Declaration is certainly very just, and at the fame

time very favourable to the generality of our society; which

in confirmation of it can produce many initances ot Authors

who write admirably, upon every one of the motives juit

mentioned. However it must be acknowledg’d, that there

is a good deal of difference betwixt the produétions of afllue

ent and neceflitous Writers: and as the one are inclined to

obefity, and the other to ftrigofitys fo /wdsility is gene-

rally wanting in the works of the tormer, and /o/idity in

thoie of the latter. ‘The medium, as in most other cafes,

is likewise best in this before us: and an Author in pretty

good plight, who has always a {plendid jhi//ing at leaf in

his pocket to buy a dinner, generally {peaking writes with

more {pirit, than another who wants one: tho’ some ex-

ceptions may be found among us to the contrary. And

even among those whose Circumstances are ealy, one may

very often discover the greater or less advantage a Person

receives from his writings, by the writings themselves;

and the performance will trequently manitelt the pay. By

this we may account for the difference there is betwixt

the Compositions of three of our learned Members, the

Britifbs Reads, and London Journalss and for the superiority,

Which the last has over the two former. ‘To this is like-

wile owing that complete victory which he has lately gained

over the CrarTsMAN, Which was a secret to cur whole

Society, till his own authentic account of it in the London

Journal, Sept. 12. Numb. 580. was read at the Pegatus.

To this account he has added a fimile in blank verles

which the ignorant Printer having fet in the manner of

profe, it has been taken for such by the generality of

Readers. But Mr. Mavius having discovered it to the

Society, the whole was ordered to be exacily printed,

Without the least addition or diminution, as a {pecimen of a

polite period well turned in prole, and an admirable satyric

fimile in verse.

‘ He [the Craft/mar] has been trying several weeks to

* stand up against the farce of reajci, and refiit the power

© of truth and argument; but all in vain: ienfiole therefore

‘ of his defeat, and conscious that he is driven cut of tae

‘ field, he flies for refuge to /ow /currilities, and the mye

‘ contemptible Billinjgate. In his lat letter to humfedl s

‘he fands still, and rails, and feolds.

a

——— - ———- So have I {cen

‘ A cow'rdly, ill-bred, country, mungr! Cur,

‘ Who, tho’ afraid of all, yet fnar!s at ail,

¢ Upon receiving atew good found lathes,

« Take refuge in the house, put his head out 2

© A bole, and bark.

‘ Let the Dog bark on &c. BAVIUS

[Page 3.]

gee

ene he

“2

sed, for the murder of Rob. Stuart.

r. 3 | b ° han x

b, Sept. 17. Yesterday Geo. Donald was hang-

jag He was upwards of

said, that he bore no, ill will to the person he

Os that it Was the effect of being over heated

| sh liquor 3 from the exceflive ufe of which he exhorted

‘i rfons to abstain. He {seemed penitent, and give abun-

yeh ne of satisfaction to the Ministers who attended him.

OY tie Sept. 19. On thur(day a desperate duel was

fought in Phoenix-park, near this city, between a Gen-

tleman of the Law, and an Officer of Horie, with {word

and Pp Nw ee

i agonist in the left wrist,; fo that the ball

sa aga. the back of his arm: the challenge was

iven by the Counsellor, who was affronted by the Ofh-

a in a manner that he would not pass.

his pistol first, which mifling fire gave his enemy the op-

rtunity to disable him, tor his own safety, he having

cS one charge, instead of two. dD. FP. 2.7:

n=

FOREIGN NEWS.

THURSDAY, Sept. 24.

Yesterday arrived the Mail from France.

is, Sept 30. N.S. Letters from Rome of the roth

Bes Seg Gira. Caraccioli died the 6th, aged 88,

whereby a 6th Cap is vacant. C. P. D.P. On

the egth and 26th the King of Portugal’s 2 great bells were

weighed in the scales; when both appeared to weigh

but 40,000 pounds, whereas the Founder had charged

them at 40,000 a piece; and the 4 lesser likewise wanted

athirds of weight. They are to be weighed again at

the Steel-yard: but there wanting about 70,00 pounds

weight of metal, the Founder has been committed to Fort

L'Eveque. Ibid. D.F. S.F. WE.

Some days ago a Priest returning from Seve to Ver-

filles, was attacked by some young Surgeons of Versailles,

who bastinadoed him to such a degree, that he died fa-

turday last. ‘Ihe Surgeons, who are fied, Were angry at

the Priest’s performing several cures gratis. Warrants are

issued out against them; and if they can be taken, the K.

has ordered, that they shall be severely punished. C.

8.3. W.E. Surgeons Apprentices: caned him in such

amanner. P. The K. has given orders to put them

to the greatest torture. D.P. L.£E.

Leghorn, Sept. 16. From Rome ’tis wrote [written]

that the D. of Savoy, King of Sardinia, who has resigned

his dominions to his Son, hath fold the said Kingdom to

the King of Spain; if fo, ’tis very probable they design to

winter in that Island, in order to be near at hand in the

spring. L. E.

Barcelona, Sept. 17. Yesterday arrived a French Tar-

tane, the Captain of which averrs, that he faw about 12

leagues eastward, near Cape Thoulon, 20 {ail of Spanish

men of war, 18 of which failed the roth, and 2 the 1ith§

which is matter of great surprize to us, for "twas here

generally believed, that they were bound forCadiz. There

snow no more talk of discharging the transports; but on

the contrary, "tis said they will be continued in the fer-

vice. The imbarking heavy cannon, &c. on the tranf-

ports is again renewed, and those designed to carry horle

arecomplétely fitted; fo that on a very short notice the

Fleet may be dispatched. did.

Friday, Sept. 25.

Hague, Sept. 22. N.S. Some People are persuaded, that

the Court of France will not pay all that deference they

could wish, to the remonstrances of the English, in rela-

tion to the demolition of Dunkirk: that this may occasion

some coldness between the 2 Courts: and that the Empe-

ror will endeavour to improve it, by proposing to {tell

Ostend and Nieuport to the English; which would be a

vat increase of the Commerce of th:t Nation, and be

equally advantageous to the subjects of the Austrian Ne-

therlands: but these things found fo romantick, that we

ate forced to discredit them, at the same time that we

are willing to communicate what we hear. P.

Some People’s persuasion is on/y imagination. Had this

niter’s intelligence been formerly fo good, be might by

communicating the EMPEROK’s defiyns to the Auxies, bave

baftened Don Cartos’s expedition.

Paris, Sept. 27. A Prisoner in this city, a few days ago,

made his escape in a very particular manner. One of ‘his

Comrades died in the jail: whereupon he conveyed the

ody out of the way, and exposed himi{elf upon the bier,

“0d was carried out to the place of interment, but just as

they were about to lay him in the earth, he started up and

ni away. This put the attendants into a terrible con-

.- tations who itd as faft from him as they could, as

they never desired to fee him more. It has

a resolved in Council, that all mournings, reserving

be that are worne for Fathers or Mothers, shall|

again retrenched to half the time. In Germany, the

ourning is only a Crape ty’d to the left arm. -——

Extraordinary operation in Surgery, recommended in

iftol, which was decided in favour of thelatter, who|

He fnapp'd|

| §. Gomar at Liere.

the Demonstrations laid: down in Lectures by M. Hunauld,

Professor of Physick at the Royal Garden in this city, viz,

An amputation of the humerus, or shoulder, in the joint,

when there is no other poflibility of saving the Patients

life, having been aétually dgne in Holland in the presence

of Dr. Boerhavez with success, was thus performed: by M.

du Verney, Surgeon. Firit, a very strong ligature was

made on the great artery, by passing a needle under the-

arm, near the axi//a, to prevent an hemorrhage: then,

by a femicircular incifion on the top of the shoulder, it,

was disjointed, leaving as much ficfh underneath, toge-

ther with the ligature, as served to turn up, and cover the

wound and naked part of the /capu/a, neatly turned, in

erder to unite thereto: and this with proper comprefs

and bandage, partly as in a luxation of that joint, finished

the work. P. —- This is a very odd account, without the

name, quality, age, complexion, disease, Fe. of the Pa-

tient: no year, month, day, or hours no place, company,

or weather mentioned. For my part, having read the

learned Dr. T ’s admirable Cajes in Surgery, I re-

life none but very circumstantial relations.

Carelsruke, Sept 23. We fee here, in one of the gar

dens of the Margrave of Baden Durlach, a very fine plant

call’'d The grand Indian Panoniene. It is 12 foot high

and a foot and 8 inches in circumference; its leaves

from 6 to 7 foot long. It began to bloflom Aug. 12, has

put out 35 flowers, and in all appearance will {oon pro-

duce more. D.F.

Barcelona, Sept. 17. N.S. On board the Globe, Capt.

Amos Moore, one of the transports; her 2d Mate having

corrected the Cook, he threatened, that he would te re-

vengéd: and at some distance of time, seeing an oppor-

tunity, he run him through the body with a ipit, fo that

he died on the spot. The Cook was immediately seized,

and is now in irons on board her. Jdid. This

Cook deserves a severe punishment for thus a&ing out of

the proper way of bis trade; none but Soldiers and Gentle-

men having authority to {pit fleth alive.

SATURDAY, Sept. 26.

Vefterday arrived the Mail from Holland.

Moscow, Sept. §. ’Tis said, that P. Emanuel of Portu-

gal is to command the 30,©00 Russians, which are to pais

into the Emperor’s service, and that this Prince will re-

sign his regiment of Cuiraffiers in favour of Baron Stein,

the present commanding Colonel. D.P. D. F.

Vienna, Sept. 20. By the last dispatches from Count Co-

nigfegg at Paris we have advice, that the Court of France

has insinuated to his Excellency, that in cafe the Empe-

ror had no further articles of accommodation to offer, than

what had been already communicated, the Court of

Spain would {till make some enterprize in Italy. D P.

Berlin, Sept. 23. We hear from Warsaw, that the K. of

Poland was to fet out for Grodno the zoth; and that he

has fent orders to Saxony for continuing the new Levies,

to compleat all the regiments, in order to have an army

of 30,000 effective men. C. D. F.

Mownpay, Seft. 28.

Brussels, Of. 2. N.S. Signor Lanti, a famous Eunuch

Musician, Director of the opera here, has quitted the

Theatre, and is made a Canon in the collegiate church of

C.

Rome, Sept. 9. Signor Maffei, Nuncio at Paris, is or-

dered to go and stay at Avignon, "till he be made Cardi-

nal; that he might not give the precedency in his own

house to the natural Sons of France, as his Predecessor did, to

the great difguit of this Court. —— Card. Caraccioli left

but 300 crowns to his poor family, and a silver boccal

and bason to Card. Corradini: for he died very poor, be-

ing used to give all he could to the poor. P.

Sept. 13. Some Tartuffs having observed, that many

Prelates, because of their indi{fposition, wore wigs, com-

plained thereof to the Pope, who gave them for answer,

That they should fee to reform bad works and evil customs,

and not wigs. The Company of Butchers having

never a Church of their own, have bought that of Biagio

della fofla, whereof the next morning they took poilef

fion. Jdid.

Hamburg, Sept. 26. The troops of Hanover quarter'd

in the County of Oldenbourg, are forthwith to march out,

and the County is to be reilored into the handg of the

King of Denmark, his Majecity designing to pay off the

mortgage. D. P.

Nap/es, Sept. 5. The imperil regiments continue to hold

themselves ready to march, having orders to take the field

the end of this week, to form the camp proposed near this

capital, on the fide of Bara and §. George at Cremano;

upon advices which we have received, that the Spanish fleet

Was ready to put to feas but this encampment will much

prejudice the approaching vintage. D. Ff.

Tuesday, Sept. 29,

Veterday arrived the Mail from Holland.

Rome, Sept. 16. It is said that a discovery has been

made, by some intercepted Letters, that the Cardinals

Cofcix and Fini had resolved to quit the territories of

the Charch, and that the former designed to retire to

Genow W.E.

oa

Vienna, Sept. 23. This Court has received advicets

which leave no room to.doubt-but the expedition to laly

is put off tilt next spring. Mean while, the negotiations

will be continued all the winter for. accommodating mat

ters between the Emperor and the King of Spain. Ther

are.even handed about here; some. preliminary articless

upon which it is reported that the new congress is to

proceed. Ibid.

Leghorn, Sept. 16. The Island of Corsica is in greater

confusion than ever, which very much perplexes the re-

publick of Genoa. Jdid.

Anfterdam, O&.6. They write from Berlin, that a great

council. of war is going to be held there, in which the

Prince of Anhalt isto preside. did.

Dresden, Sept. 20., It is plain the Court is under some

confternation at what has been doing at a neighbouring

one; tho’ a Person of distinétion juit arrived here from

the Marquifate assures us, the differences fo much talk’d

of have not wanted the aggravations usual in the rela-

tion; that the bottom of the affair was a flight designed

upon the wings of love; and that all will soon be well

again, and the young Lover restored to favour. P.

Yesterday arrived the Mails from France and Flanders. -

Moscow, Sept. 5. Tho’ the Turks have filed off many

of their troops from Bender and Aftracan towards Constan-

tinople, there remain still in those quarters above 40,000

Crim Tartars: for which reason orders have been fent

to the commanding General in Ukrania to keep the Cof-

sacks under his command, or at least 20,000 of them, as

well as 20,000 regular troops in a constant readiness, to

prevent an incurfion from the Tartars. D. P. D. F.

Paris, Of. 4: By private Letters from Madrid we are

informed, that Don Lewis Spinola having made a report

to their € atholick Majesties of his negotiations at the

Court of Fiance was returned thither [to Madrid]; that

he fell ill upon his arrival, and that his Catholick lajesty

had appointed Count de Morthemar Lieut. Gen. of his

army, to succeed in the command of the troops design’d

for Italy. D. P. The King, Queen, Prince and

Princess of Asturias, &c. embarked at Seville the 10th

init. for Port S. Mary’s. D. F.

Bruféls, OF. 2. On friday last, the spiritual Court pro-

nounced sentence of excommunication against Melff. ca

pens and Weymans, Canons of our Cathedral Church, and

their Prebends were at the same time declared Vacant, be-

cause they refused submission to the Church in accepting the

constitution Unigevitus, asenjoin’dthem. EE. P. W. B.

Paris, OF. 4. We learn trom Bretagne, that 2 mines

had been discover’d in that Province; one of Lead, where-

in 200 workmen are employ’d; and the other of silver, on

which men are preparing to work very {uddenly. E. P.

L. &.

Our tranfmigrated Brother The-Weekley Med/ey, who (to

ule his own words) vanished away instantaneously the be-

ginning of last May, having used to print a weekly Cata-

logue of Books jult published: we being convinced of the

usefulness of that design, resolve for the future to continue

it, beginning where he left off. By this means the Curious

may fee in this fourma/ a compleat Catalogue of the Works

of the Learned in general, and of our Society in particue

lar, printed in England.

Books and Pamphlets published in May.

An universal history, N. I.

The Toilette, a Poem.

Fancylogy.

Leges Wallicze Heeli Boni, &c.

A compleat history of the ancient amphitheatres.

An essay proving the immortality of the foul: froma

M. S. of the A. B. of Cambray.

A discourse on the 4th Commandment. Part II. By Rob,

Hill, M. A.

* A Vindicat. of the L. Carterct. By the rev. Dr.S -t.

M. de Thou’s history, N. 22, 23, 24. which compleat,

Vol. Il. By Mr. Wilson.

Wilder’s fermons before the university of Oxford.

The Conclave of Pope Gregory © IV.

Positive inflitutions not to be compared with, &c. moral

duties. By John Chilton, B. D.

An enquiry into the miracle said to be wrought in the

5th Cent. to confirm the doétrine of the Trin.

The Amours of Philaris and Olinda.

Horace to Sceva.

An epiltle from the late L. Bake to the D. of W—n.

A Letter to the Craftsman. By Euttace Budgell, Esq;

An anatomical and mechanical Essay on the whole ani-

mal Oeconomy. By John Cook, stud. of physic.

A short Treatise of artificial stone.

The Author’s Farce.

Divine re€titude, or a brief enquiry concerning the mos

ral perfections of the Deity.

Mathematical discourses concerning 2 new f{cience relae

ting to mechanicks. By Tho. Weiton.

27 Sermons in 2 Vol. By Ab. Markland.

The Lord he is God, &c. By J. Henley. °

The Life of Lucilio (alias Julius Cefar) Vanini,

Bishop of London’s 2d Pastoral Letter.

[Page 4.]

Specimina Ichnographica, &c. By John Allen, M. D.

Christianity not as old as the Creation, &c.

Emanuelis Alvari regule de fyllabarum quantitate.

on Address, or Magistrates against the Mufes.

piftle to the R. H. Sir Rob. Walpole.

Sermons by Dr. Sam. Clarke, I. and IL. Vol.

Critical Dissertations on all the Books of the Old and

Wew Teitament. By Al. Innes, D. D. Vol. I.

+ Adifcourse concerning conscience. By R. Blomer. D. D.

An Appeal to Reason, in a comparison of the belief of

Christians and Deitts.

The Charge delivered by Will. Cowper Esq; at the Sef-

fions at Westminster, Ap. 6.

Dr. Allen’s Synopfis Medicine -translated and improved

one third: in 2 Vol. 8vo.

» "The Progress of Wit, a Caveat &c. a Poem.

Eunuchus Terentii cum notis ad difficiliores quofq; locos.

Mr. Woolfton’s Defence of his Discourses, &c. Part II.

A Letter ‘to a Friend in the Country concerning Mr.

Budgell, &c.

The History and Antiquities of Harwichand Dover Court,

by Samuel Dale. 4to.

Discourse concerning the confusion of Languages at Ba-

bel. By W. Wotton. D. D.

An Enquiry into the causes

By Tho. Sharp, D. D.

A new Survey of the Globe by Tho. Templeman.

The antient and modern History of the famous City of

York, &c. By T.G.

The Fopiad, shewing the advantages of a genteel dress.

Books and Pamphlets publish’d in my last.

of infidelity in 2 Discourses.

On Tuesday Stocks were,

South Sea 103 3 8ths to 1 half. SouthSea Annuity 108

t half. Bank 144 1 half for the Opening. India 189.

Three per Cent. Annuity 97 1 half. Royal Exchange Af-

farance gz. London Assurancé 12 3 8ths. York Build-

ings 361 half. South Sea Bonds 51. 10s. Premium. In-

dia ditto 51. 16s. ditto. Million Bank 108 3 qrs.

Bank Circulation 5 1. per Cent. Premium. Benefits 1710

2. qr. Years Purchase. Nevis and S. Christopher’s De-

nt. 5 per Cent. Discount. English Copper 31. 10s.

Welth ditto 3 1. . ="

The Course of Exchange.

‘ Madrid 42 3 4ths

Biiboa 42

Leghorn 51 1 half

Genoa 54 6 4th

Venice 48 7 8ths

Lisbon 5s. 5 d.a7 8ths 6

Porto 5s. 4d. 7 8ths

Dublin 10 1 half

Amsterdam 34 8

Ditto at fight 34.5 a6

Rotterdam 34.9 a10

Antwerp 35 3

Hamburgh 33 4

Parisat fight 32 5 8thsa 1half

Bourdeaux at fight 32 1 half

Cadiz 42 5 8ths

Prices of Goods at Bear Key.

r Quarter per Quarter

ial smi to 27 Hog Peas——- 15 to 17

Rye —— 11 to 13 Boiling Peas— 19 to 21

Barley — 11 to 13 Pale Malt 12 to 20 6

Oats — 8013 | Brown Malt—12 to 17 6

HorseBeans 17 to 22 Tares —— 20 to 26

Coals 21 s. to 23 s. per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 — 15s. to 20s. per Hundred.

Hops 1729 — 20s. to 35s. per Hundred.

Hops 1730 — 353s. to 65s. per Hundred.

Rape Seed 101. 10s. to 111. per Lat.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

This Day is Publisher,

Beantifully printed from the 2 Vols.in 4to with improvements, en a fine

goriting Paper, in cwo Pocket Foils. in 8vo. Price Six Shiltings bound,

POEMS by Attan Ramsay.

Let them censure what cave I,

The herd of Criticks I defy:

Ne, mo, the Fair, the Gay, the Young

Govern the numbers ef my Song:

All that they approve is [weet,

And all is sense that they repeat.

Prior frem Anacreon,

Printed for J. Clark in Duck-lane; Weaver Bickerton without

Temple-Bart 3 A. Millar against Sr. Clemene’s Church in the Strand;

B. Cogan a the Middle Temple-gate, Fleer. street; R. Willockin Corn-

hill, and S. Palmer and J, Huggonfon, Printers 10 Bar tholomew-clote,

eal

This May is publitven,

THE Lire of MAHOMET. Translated from the French Ori-

ginal written by the Count of Boulainviliiers, Auchor of the Pre-

font State of France, and oi the Hifiorical Mensoirs thereto subjoined.

*Tis tyme, Compoling 1s the Nobler Part,

Bat geod Translation is so cafy Ar. Roscommon.

Princed for W. Hinchliffe, ac Dryden’s Head under the Royal-Ex-

ah.

Qt Thureray nert will be publishe?,

The OCCASIONAL WRITER, N°’ II.

SOLD by the Booksellers and Pamphiet-Shops of London and

Westminster. Price 6 d.

Where may be had the ad Edition of Numb. I.

N.B, It this Number should be pyrated, as was the last, some Me-

thod will be taken to prevent it for the future.

This Day ig Hublish’d.

Religion the great Support, amd Vice the Defirncion, of Government,

and the publick Happine{s.

A Sermon preach’d before the Right Honourable the Lord Mayor,

and the Governours of the several Hospitals of Londou, at

tne Parish Church of Christ-Church, on Monday Seprember 21, be-

irg St- Matthew’s Day. By Joseph Trapp, D. D. mivifter of theuni-

ted Parishes of Christ-Churcy, and St. Leonard’s Fofter-lane, Lon-

don. Publish’d at the Request of the Lord Mayor, and the Alder-

men, and other Governours of the several Hospitals, then present.

Printed itor RicHARD WARE, &t the Bible and Sun in Warwick-

Line, Amen-Corner; and LawTow GitLivea, at Homer's Head,

against St. Dunstan’s Church, in Fleet-street. 1730. Price Six Pence,

Where may be had by the fame Author,

A Sermon preach’d op the 30'h of January 1729. Publish’d at

the Request of the Lord Mayer and Sheriffs.

Il. A Sermon preaeh’d at Sct. Lawrence Jewry, of Preaching, Hear-

ing, aud Praétifing the Word ot God, Publish’d at the Request of

the Vestry.

T HI

A.

and Sie Mary Magdalen in Canterbury, and ot Mersham in Kents and

one of the 4x Preachers of the Cathedral Church ot Canterbury: From

perance, and Judgment to come.

feience. On! vayer, Of Friend{nip with God. Of the Emmity of the

ange.

Gu published,

In 2Vols. v0. Price bound 108.

RTY NINE SERMONS by the late Rev. Fobn Cook,

“. Reétor of the United Parishes of St. George the Martyr,

the manuscript Copy, prepared by himielf tor the Press: (there being

several Copies of foms of the Sermons abroad in Writing, firstgranted

at che Request of the Countels of Coventry, anid other Personsof Di-

ftinction.) On the following Heads and Occasions, wz. Of Faith.

Of Happine/s. Of coming toChrif. Of Vanity. Of Righteousness, Tem-

Cleanness mifilaken. Of God’s Oxmi-

Devil. Of Resolution in Faith and i ra@tice. Of Proving and Perfe-.

vering. The Nature of Cleanncf{s. Naaman’s Cure. Of Vision, Reve-

lation, and Repentance. Of Zeal when commendable. When faalty. The

Crown of Blifs and Glory. The Righteens Man's Reward. The Wicked

Man's ict, The Blessedness of Momrning. The Blessedness of Meekne/s.

Mercy to the Merciful. Of Purity in Heart. Of holding faft the

Faith. Godly Kear and Obedience. Of Covetenfness. Of the Sabbath.

Sion preferred; Of Superfiitton. The Difficulty of Salvation. On St.

Peter's Denial. Ona the Fifth ef November; preached before the Lower

House ot Convocation, who requefled this Sermon to be prined.

Printed by E.C. tor L. Gittaven, at Homer’s Head against St.

Dunstao’s Churca in Fleet firect.

Name oe

BOOKS printed for Joun Baornerron, at the Bible next the

Fleece Tavern in Cornhill.

Blair’s Sermons, 5 Vols.

Lite of Oliver Cromwel

Gordon’s Geog. Grammar

Boiicau Oevre poetique

Pilgrim’s Progress

Tates of the Fairies, 3 Vol.

Engiith Tutor

Musical Dictionary

Shalefpear's Plays

Congieve’s Works

Garth’s Ovid

Cambdey’s Britannia

Burkit on the New Testament

L’Eftrauyge’s Jolephus

Tillotfun’s Works, 3 Vols.

Bicon’s Works, 4 Vols.

Lock’s Works, 3 Vol.

Oldenburgh oi Exchanges

Addison’s Works, 4 Vols. 4to

Puffendori’s Law «1 Nawre

Bailey’s Di@ionary, tol.

Wood’s Institutes, fol.

Carckas’s Rates, fol. Boyer’s ‘Telemachus|

Stevens’s Spanish DiGionary Meige’s State of Britain

With Variety ot single Plays and Pamphlets.

Fuk Pudblifhen,

{Price Three Shillings bound.}

HE Art of Heraldry. Containing, I, The Original

and Universality of Arms and Ensigns, with their Use

and Necessity; their Blazon, Distribution, Abatements, and

kKewards of Honour. II. Of diverse kinds of Efcotcheons,

and of the bearing or using the Ordinaries in Coat Armour,

ILf, Of Coat Armour form’d of Artificial Things, whether

Civil, Ecclesiastical, Military or Marine, tuch as are made

by man, or for his Use. IV. Of Charges in Coat Armour

torm’d ot Celestials, as the Sun, Moon, Stars, Angels, &c.

Of Vegetables, as Trees, Flowers, ilants, Fruits, &c. Of

the Parts of Man’s Body, as the Hands, Legs, Arms,

Heart, &c. Of Animals, as Lyons, Tygers, Horses, Stags, &c.

in Whole and in Parts. V. Of Charges from Fowls and

Birds of all Sorts, in Whole and in Parts. VI. Of Charges

from Fithcs of all Kinds, in Whole and in Paris. VII. Of

Charges from Monstrous Animals, in Whole and in Parts

Embellish’d with Forcy Copper Platts, containing above

goo Coats of Arms of the Nobility and Gentry of Great

Brtain and Ireland, curiously engraven, with their particu-

lar Descriptions, and by whom borne. _ Inter{pers’d with the

Natural History of the several Species of Birds, Beaits,

Fishcs, Vegetables, &c. comprehended therein. Together

with Occasional Explications of all the Terms _ufed in the

Science of Heraldry, and peculiar thereto. To which is

prefix’d, An Alphabetical Lift of the Names of the Fami-

lies whose Coats are delineated in the Book, with References

tu the Pages where they are to be found. Printed for J Os-

born, ncar Dock-Head, in Southwark: And Sold by A.

Bettesworth in Pater-Nofter Row, and F, Cogan at the

Middle Temple Gate, Fleet-street 1730.

ame hh

The following PLAYS ave to be sold for Cd. apiece, at Mr.

Ossorn’s at Dock-Head, near Horflydoan, and

at the Middle Templegate.

Plays in Quarto.

Wit without money. Spanish Curate.

mian. Chances. Custom of the Country, Wife tora Month

Wic at several weapons. Coxcomb. Bonduca. Bloody Brothers.

Maid’s Tragedy. Woman-hater. Humorous Lieutenant. Love lies

ableeding. Double marsiage. Island Princess. Loyal Subje&. Love's

Cure. Propheceis. Pilgrim. Rule a wife, and have awite. Beo.

t’shufh. Maid in the mill. 4/1 these by Beaumont and Fleche,

Areful husband. faneGray. Governor of Cyprus. Perfidious bro.

ther. Liberty affercede Scowrers. Virtuoso, DukeotGuife. maf.

facre of Paris. Love's paradife. French puritan, Perpl:xed lovers,

Love in awood. JuniusBrutus. Epiom wells. Injured love. Phi.

lefophy no detence against love. Persian princes, Chears. Ulyfles,

Amorous bigot. Perulla and Ifadora. Arfinoe, Queen of Cyprus

Faille triend. Woman's wit. '

Plays in O@ave.

Imperial captives. Kenfingcon gardens. Cafar in Aypr,

ry1V.of Fravce. Spartandame. English chevalier. Whig and tory

lovader ot his coumuy. Arthul wife. Anticchos. Love and liber

Rival generals. Roman actors. Faults on both fides. Love in “a

rest, Lottery. Sulianeis. Henry VI. Eiwin. Fall of Saguncum

Female fop. Feimale pation. Henry V. Revenge. Hibernia freed,

Fatai legacy. Capricious lovers. Lady’s philosophy,

Plays in Teeelves.

Sir Walter Rale’gh. Perplexed couple. Country wife. ..

baftian. London a Ids. Lovein ny oe Aagetiien. uae

for awile. Heroickdaughter. Noah’s fluod. Bafflet table. Injured

virwe. Scipio Atricanus. Petticoartplower. Slip. Clouds, Brirane

nicos and Aiexander, World’s-‘Idol. Litigants. Viétim. Person

Pincefs. Richmond Heirefs, Tottenham court.

c Halt-par officers,

Cuckolds make themselves. Athaliah. Witetobe lett. She gallants,

Perfidious brother.

Lad *s tuiumphe Woman's a riddle, B Ps

Duke of Gloucester. 7 rutton,

Where may be had great Variety of Nivels. Price 6 de each.

¢ Mr. Jomm

a: r, CoGan's

SCornful Lady. Valenti.

Hene

eee J

This Day is publisher,

Which was the Reason of putting off the publick Commencement at Tri.

nity College, Dublin, and for which the Printer there is under Pre

Secntion.

THE CrewsorntravD. A Poem.

A. Dodd without Temple- Bar,

Of whom may be had,

1, A Letter from a Lady to her Husband abroad, sth Edition.

2+ The Batchelor’s Estimate of the Expences of a marsied biie, and

Vindication; and married Man’s An.wer.

3- New Reflexions on the Female Sex.

4 The grand Mystery of meditating over an House of Office.

_ §+ Modest Proposal for preventing Children of poor People from be-

ing @ Burden, &c. By Dr. Swift.

6. Present State of Ireland considered.

By Martin Gulliver. Sold by

Dr. GODFREY’s General Cordial,

So universally approved of for the Cholick, and all manner of

Pains in the Bowels, Fluxes, Fevers, Small-Pox, Mcafles,

Rheumatisms, and Keftleffnets in Men, Women, and Ciilde

ven; and particularly for several Ailments incident to Child-

ens women, and Relief of young Children in breeding their

cetir.

S fold in most Cities, Boroughs, and Market-Towns

throughout.Great-Britain and freland; rcmov‘d from

Hiunfidion to Broxborn in Hertfordfh:re: And tor the Conve

niency of supplying all those parts, there are established by

me BENJAMINCODF KEY these following Whole

sale Warehousts, viz.

John Weftlake’s in Queen-street, Bristol;

William Furly’s, Dittiller, at che Black Prince, in the

Market-Place, in the City of Norwich.

Peter Leadbeater’s, Distiller, in Weft Chesters

Mr. Button’s, Bookseller, on the Bridge at Newegitle

upon Tyne 3 ,

Mr. Brooke’s, Distiller, on the Blind-key, Dublin.

As pode my Original Warehouse in Bishopfygate-street

London, %

Any reputable Shop-keeper in any City, Borough, or

Market-Town, where this Medicine is not already sold, may

be supply'd at any of the said Ware-houses with good Al-

lowance.

N. B. The Publick are desired to take Notice, (to prevent

being imposed on) that there is an ill minded Person who

counterfe.ts the said Medicine, and puts the Title of Ged

frey’s Cordial on the top of the Bottles, and in his Bills gives

with the Bottles, he calls it Ze GENERAL COKk

DIAL, and does not put the Person’s Name who prepaics

it; butas this Counterfeir Maker is now found out by his

own Confession, he and his Sellers will be prosecuted as the

Law directs (as Impcftors): And to prevent the Buyers a

being impos’d on, I have put my Christian Name on 06

Top of each Bottle, which is prepared

By me Benjamin Godfrey, M. D.

The price of each Botileis 6 d.

For the Benefit of those who are assisted w'th the DROPSY.

Elizabeth Knell, who lives next Door to the Baker 3°

Basket in Middle-street, Cloth-fair, near Weft-fmithfield,

TILL continues to perform great Cures in the fad

Distemper, on both Sexes, and all Ages. the

N.B. An Account may bz had of feve:al Cyrs6 ath

Place aforesaid.

0 ee ~ ee ere-

LONDON: Printed by A. Moore, for Captain Gulliver, near the Temple, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in.

[Price Two Pence.]

