The Grub-street Journal.

Numb. 36.

Thursday, SEPTEMBER 10, 1730.

To Mr. Bavius, Secretary to the Grubaean Society.

imagination, which he dliles a /uperior Reason: till it { inclined ta his. opinions, P. “$76 tells uy, t ” ”

was soon seen, that Mr. Leibnitz’s /uperior Reason served| mined and corrected the tan dificult te Hist) = ne

Learned Sir, Oxon. Aug. 31, 17309.

READ, with ro small surprize, your

Pp Account of Mr. Whijfton’s Memoirs of the

life of Dr. Clarke. The passages you

had eatraéted, raised my curiosity so far,

that I could not forbear sending for the book immediately. But when I came

to read the book it self, I was no less

fo great a number of extraordinary paf-

I wonder you should

ized to find

furpr passed over by you in silence.

omit that reflexion at the very beginning, where having|

told us that Mr. Emlyn, Himielf, Mr. Peirce of Exeter,

and Mr. Tomkins of Newington, had published faithful

accounts of their Prosecutions and Expulsions 5 he observes

that Dr. Clarke, who was deeply concerned in thee disco-

veries, and was like to have been cenfured by the conzoca-

tion, A.D. 1714. for publishing the jame, seemed to endea-

our, as much as pofible, to conceal his own History,

which yet is equally due to the publick with the ref.

The converiation which paffled between Dr. Clarke and

Mr. Whilton, concerning Rohault’s Physicks, was very

worthy of notice. The Dr. having asked Mr. Whilton’s

opinion about the fitneis of translating that fyitem of Car-

tefian Philosophy, which work his tutor had recommended

to him, was answered, that ‘ since the youth of the Uni-

‘ yefity must have, at present, some fyttem of Natural

¢ Philosophy for their fludies and exercises; and since the

* true fyitem of Sir Isaac Newton was not yet made eaty

* enough for that purpose 5 it was not impieper, for their

¢ fakes, yet to translate and ule the fyitem of Rohault, but

‘ that as soon as Sir Itaac Newton’s Philosophy came to

‘ be better known, that only ought to be taught, and the

‘other dropp’d. The last part of which Advice, Mr.

¢ Whifton fays, has not been followed, as it ought to have

«been, in that University; but, as Bishop Hoadley truly

¢ observes, Dr. Clarke’s Rohault is still the principal book

« for the students there. ‘Though such an observation be

¢ no way to the honour of the Tutors in that University,

‘who, in rcading Rohault, do only read a Philosophical

* Romance to their Pupils, almost perpetually contradi¢ted

* by the better notes thereto belonging. And certainly, to

¢ ufe Cartefian fictitious Hypothefes at this time of day,

‘after the principal parts of Sir I/aac’s certain system

« have been made easy enough for the understanding of or-

‘ dinary Mathematicians, is like the continuing to eat old

* Acorns, after the discovery of new wheat, for the food

*of Mankind’. Mr. Whiiton might have said that Sir

Ifiac Newton's fyitem has been made easy enough for the

understanding not only of ordinary Mathematicians, but

of those aliog who understand zo Mathematicks at all: for,

Ido not doubt, but that Dr. Pemberton has performed

what he undertook to do, in his Vierw of Sir I/aac New-

ton’s er tho’ [ have not yet had leisure to peruse

ok.

The remarks on abffraP and metaphs/ick Reasonings de-

served some notice in your paper. When Dr. Clarke

brought Mr. Whifton his Sermons preached at Boyle’s

Leiure, in which he had dealt a great deal in this kind

af reasoning, he asked the Dr. * how he ventured into such

* fubtilties, which he himself never durst meddle with?

*And shewing him a Nettle, or the like contemptible

* weed, in his Garden, told him, that weed contained bet-

“ter arguments for the Being and Attributes of God, than

“all his Metaphysicks. The Dr. confessed it to be fo; but

“alledged for himéelf, that since such Philosophers, as

* Hobbs and Spinoza had made use of those kind of fub-

* tilties against; he thought proper to shew, that the like

Way of reasoning might be made better ufe of on the

* fide of Religion.’ Mr. Whitton allowed this excuje to

not inconsiderable; and concludes with declaring it

to be his opinion, that ‘ such kind of Arguments are the

most fubtile, but the leaf? fatisfatory of all others what-

oever.” In another part of this treatise he observes,

hat Metaphysical fubtilties have some tines had pernci-

roa consequences, even against common Senje and common

“perience: Examples ot which he produces in the C..es

of those three famous men, Mr. Leibnitz, Mr. Lock ond

eran Berkley. « ‘The first of which was by Dr. Clarke

Prefled {o hard, from matter of fa¢t,

tion, and the discoveries of Sir Tinzac Newton, tut

Was forced to have recourse to Metapnyfical {uitilties,

known hus of

2

to little else, but to confirm the great Superiority of Exe

perience and Mathematicks, above all such Metaphysical

{ubtilties whatsoever. As to Mr. Locke, who had en-

tered deeper into Metaphysick Reasoning, and perhaps

with better success than any before him: he was, how-

ever, driven at length into such great distress, by Pro-

feffor Limborch’s famous Metaphysical Argument againi

human Liberty, that he honestly confessed he could not

answer it; and yet had fo much good sense, as to believe

he was a free Creature, on the credit of his own Ex-

perience, let Metaphysick difficulties be never fo infu-

perable; as all wife men will ever do. _ As to Dean

Berkley, he published this Metaphysick notion, that

Matter eas not a reat thing; nay, that the common

opinion of its Xea/ity was groundlets, if not ridiculous. ”

Mr. Whifton, aiter he had perused this book, went to

Dr Clarke, and told him, ¢ that tor his own part he [not

* being a Metzphyfician] was not able to answer Mr. Berk-

ley’s [fubtile] premijes 5 though he did not at all believe

his [abiurd] conclusion: and therefore desired that the

Dr. who was deep in such fubtilties, but did not appear

to believe Mr. Berkley’s conclusion, would answer him,

‘ which task he declined.

ee ee|

a a

Mr. Locke or Dean Berkley; ’tis the pretended Me-

taphy sick science it self (derived from the sceptical dif-

putes of the Greek Philosophers) not those particular

Great Men who have been unhappily impoted on, that I

complain of. Accordingly when the: famous Milton

had a mind to represent the vain reasoning of wicked

{pirits in Hades, he ceicribes it by their endlels train of

Metaphysicks, thus;

Orhers apart fat on a bill retir'd,

In thoughts more elevate, and reason'd bizh

Of Providence, Foreknow/edze, Will and Fate

Fix'd Fate, Freeewill, Fore*nowledge absolute,

And found no end in wandring Mazes loft.

The curious Astronomical Discovery, mentioned in p.

14. deserved your notice. Mr. Wiifton in this place in-

forms us, that as Dr. Clarke and his Father * happened to

‘ be viewing Saturn’s ring at Norwich, with a Telescope

© of 15 or 16 Foot long; without any previous thought or

‘ expe€tation of such a thing, they both distinétly faw a

* fixed flar between the Ring and the Body of that Pla-

net, and at some distance from it: which though de-

lieved could hardly be demonstrated before.

Mr. Whilion, in his Historical Preface had mentioned,

without naming them, some worthy and learned t erfonus of

bis acquaintance, to whom he shewed his papers, where-

in it appeared that the Eu/ebian, or commonly called

Arian Doétrine was, for the main, the Doctrine of the

two first Centuries. But now he communicates their names

to the publick, and fays they were Dr. Bradford, Mr.

Benjamin Hoadley, Mr. Clarke and Mr. Syda/: and adds,

that it was at their recommendation, that be took that

great pains of transcribing the testimonies themselves at

large, which he there gives an account of.

The Account of the Aét which Dr. Clarke kept for his

degree, at Cambridge, seems to me very remarkable. Here

Mr Whifton tells us, that he himiclf was pretent, and

that ¢ Profeflor James, who kuew of the Intimacy be-

« tween Dr. Clarke and Mr. Whitton, and thit the latter

‘ was a professed Eulebian; and suspected the former to

« be a latent one; digrefled from one of the Dr.’s questi-

‘ ons, and pressed him hard to condemn one of the opi-

‘ nions Mr. Whiiton had just then published in his Sermons

‘and Essays: which book he held in his hand when he

‘was in the chair. Mr. Whilton supposes it might be

‘hic, that our Saviour had no human foul; but that the

© divine Acyecy or Word, /upplied it’s place. ‘Uhis, fays

‘ he, was done in such a rude, indecent, and almost pro-

‘ fane manner, as occasioned the following ‘Tetraitich,

which was produced by Dr. Bentley, when Dr. Clarke

‘vr. Whifton supped with him that very evening.

Lal wn

aula

Tun Vothematicum, male false Facobe, lacejfis,

Hij2rio dum ringis jerium haberevirum?

Lud.s tu Chrihum, Dominumque Deumaue profefis:

Ile colit Dominum, quem uegat cf2 Deum.

[ummum.}

It is very observable, that Mr. Whiiton seems, in several

and to a Pre-efablifted Harmony of Things, in hig own j places at tais book, to insinuate, that Dr. Smalricge in-

I speak not these things (fays|

Mr. Whilton) with any intention to reproach either

1 ,

flation of the Apostolical Constitutions, aes te he; was"

avery great Admirer of this Book, P.174. he tells us, that

Bifeop Smalridge seemed always readily enough to give

the a rete and alas chat ‘ Sir Robert Clarke

* being once. at Bristol Cathedral, and on an Athanafian

* Creed day and not believing that. Creed himself, had

‘ nothing else to.do, byt. to watch Bishop Smalridge’s Bex

‘ haviour, ,and took, notice that he did not repeat that,

‘ Creed any more than himself." And p.1 7. He relatesy

that * when Mr. Anderson, now Reétor of Lutterworth in

icestershire, was once in company with the late Arch-

bishop Sharp and Dr. Smalridge and the Archbishop, or

some other in company, said, some body must be appoint.

ed to prove, against Mr. Whilton, that the Apostolical

Constitutions were {purious, Dr. Smalridge made answer,

that he took that to be.a bard thing to do.

These are the most remarkable things which occur to

me at present, besides those which you have already pube

lished: And if this. extraé will be. of any ufe to you, or

your learned Society, it sill be a pleasure to

Your conflant Reader, and humble Servant, 4. B

a a aaa

To the Secretary of the Grubaran Society.

SIR,

Was surprized to read an Epigram (writfen by a Friend

of mine for private Entertainment) in your Journal of

August the zoth: The person who fent it, subscribes hime

felt Phi’o-Grubaus: By the impurt of his Name, and the

Tenor of his Preainble, I perceive that he is a well-wither

to your Society, and jealous of the Reputation of its \leme-

bers so far I have nothing to fay again him; cut he

faucily ilyles my Friend a diiatfeéted Fellow, for fatvrizing

three Loyal Divines. Was not my Relentment diverted

another way, I should return. the offcious Jackana a

proper Answer, but I find my self under the Necessity of

jultifying (out of Respect to the Author) this little Amuies

went, against the impertinent Emendations of a Critic,

who dates a Letter to you fron Chelsea, Aucu/t the 217,

By the Invalidity of his Corrections, and the Lamenets of

his Numbers, 1 should imagine him to belong to the Hof

pital. He tells you in the first place (perhaps as {oinething

new) that this Compliment of Dryden’s to Milton, is an

old Thought, though improved by that Great Man; now

this is a very abrupt Introduction, and quite foreign to

any Purpose, unless he would insinuate that he himielf ig

likewise a Great Man, and no less capable of improving@

Hint, for he peremptorily asserts, that he has brought the

Copy closer to the Original, which, no doubt, Re looks

upon as a notable Improvement. _Ir I may be allowed to

know my Friend’s Intention, his Epigran was an I:mita-

tion at large, and never cesigned to be a tervile Qopy

even of that Great Man Dryden. So that there wes na

need of keeping any cloter to the Original, which tancied'

defect {ces to have been the fule Moundation of his new

model. But in comparing the Epigrams, I'll give some

reasons to prove, that it is not out of Prejudice, and a par-

tial attachment to my Friend, that I preter his Compofis

tion, which begins after this manner;

In the fame Age and Ife Three Bards Divine

Their Prince to celebrate invok'd the Nine.

The three Poets in Dryden’s Epigram are distinguithed

by the Dittance both of their Ages and Countries; my

Friend therefore judged, that it would be more extraor-

dinary Ridicule, to introduce his three Grub-street Per-

fonages in the fame Age and Isle 5 but the Chelleian can-

not allow this to be cloie enough: for in the Original there

are Three Poets, which my Friend has called Bards;

there is England, which he has indefinitely termed an Hleg

now this uncorrect Way of writing, he torcfees, might pers

plex future Commentajars, to And out what Lland was

meant. But let us examine the. Improvement of they

Lines.

Three Poets (grave Divines) in England born,

The Princes Entry did with Verje adorn.

There is a great Beauty in these Verses, according to the

Essay upon Criticism, the Sound is an Eccho to the Sense,

there is an Air of Spanish Gravity in the Metre, and the

Words move flow. He calls them, you fez, grave Di-

as perhaps being better acquainted with them 3 my

Friend (vho was a pertect Stranger to their Persons) could

not averr ty wiweh, wnlels he had taken Grave in the School

[Page 2.]

‘ Cs - arias 2

Se

Boy’s Sense, vide; Du//: Neitheg? could he positively af-

firm were afl born in England eho the} ciimpod-

fed, at least published their Divine\Congratulationg there.

The Prince’s Entry did with Verse adorn.

In*this Line there is an impropet Style, and a false Fa&:

By the Construction one would naturally suppose that this

was England’s Prince, whereas his ‘Title is Prince of Wales,

though I am not certain whether the Patent is yet~pat-

fed, but. without doubt he might not improperly be fo.

eilled by Courtesy. The false Fact is, to term his coming

over into Engi d, an Extry, which is always’ of a P af

lick” Nature: Had my Friend ‘used such an Expression,

Philo-Grubaeus might with much more Justice have ftig-

matized him with the opprobrious of a dil-

affected Fellow. — , at

—— Did with Verse adorn,

Who would sot imagine’ that these Verses were hung up in’

the Grand Streets (through, which he ¢id not make his En-

try) like Carpets over Balconies? ard if he had made his

Entry, I am fate it would have been ’x‘toarfe Compliment:

to fay, that they could adorn it in any other manner.

However, I mult own, that the Chelfeian Critic has one

inconteftable Advantage over my Friend in this Place, viz.

that he has, with a most religious closeness, preserved the

@riginal Rhymes. Proceed we now to the second Cou-

plet, which in my Friend’s Imitation runs thus:

The First in Nothingne/s of Thought furpafsd,

The next in Bombafis and in both the laf:

I cannot but fay, that I looked upon Nothingness of

Thought as a happy Phrase, and proper to convey a most

contemptible Iaca, which was certainly my Friend’s

Design.

The next in Bombaf} ——

If I remember rightly, my Friend coined a Word upon

this Occasion, which was Bomba/fry, and asked my Opinion

of it; I readily gave my Approbation, which I now con-

~ firm for theie Reasons; first, becausé it contributes more

to the Banter intended 5 and in the next place, that by

this means he avoids the Monkish Jingle of Bombait and

Laft, which seem to jarr the Ear. Besides, if you observe,

the Particle And breaks the Force of the Climax, and pre-

vents the Period from closing full and round. By the

Way, it may not be amif$ to take Notice, that there is an

Oojection made against Dryden, that he has not clearly

distinguished the different Excellencies of Homer and Vir-

il. ‘The Critic of Chelica alters (I should fay improves)

is Couplet thus.

The first in Loweline/s of Thought furpafs'd,

The next in Bombajl, and in both the Lap.

This close Copyift fancies, that there is a nearer and more

exaét Antithelis between Loftinels of Thought in the Ori-

ginal, and Lowlineis of Thought in his Emendation; for

my Part, I suspect this Gentleman himtelf to be a Grave

Divine, for Low/ine/s is a Scripture Word, and never

before, as I remember, used in Epic or Epigrammatic

Poetry. His second Verse is verbatim the fame with my

Friend's, neither can the Critic make any Exception to

his Rhymes, which are as close to Dryden’s, as he could

with. [t remains to try whether his last Lines can be as

weil defended:

Duline,s, to crown her fav’rite Laureat’s train,

Mix'd a due Portion of the former Twain.

T have heard my Friend fay, that thinking he had followed

the Original rather too clo.¢, he was itudious entirely to

vary che last Lines, and to appropriate the Satyr to this

particular Composition of the Laureat, without touching

upon his General Character, which, in my Opinion, was

an indication of a candid and ingenuous Disposition; where-

as the Conclusion of the animadverter is undetermined,

and includes the Laureat in the full Extent of his Poetical

e Capseity.

Dullness no more coud for her Laureat do,

To perfect Him, the join’d the Former Tzvo.

Having thus vindicated my Friend, I will do this Piece

of -Justice to the Roya/ Bell-man, to own, that he has (at

leait once had) a happy Knack at Versification, though lit-

ale Invention ever fell to his Share; wherefore I advise him

for the future, to hire some Grud-/reet Bard to compote

his New-Year Odes, which, as it would redound to his own

Reputation, mutt, at the {ame Time, turn to the Emolu-

ment of your illustrious Society. lam, yours,

Sept. the 1ff, 1730. Batter/ea, PHILOPHILUs.

opposite to Cheljca.

LONDON.

THURSDAY, Sept. 3.

Tuesday one of his Majesty’s Messengers arrived from

France, at Whitehail, and immediately proceeded with

his diipatches for Windsor, §. 7. @.

at his Glace the D.

Gaye Miibre, iat fea on the

mending hand: when, tho@ | cern 1c away § Mr. Jack-

“fon ghe, Apothtcary in Pall-Mall, Who Went over with hint;

he last letters from Paris advif

of Buckinghtm hid

cunftantly attended hisGrace. E. P. &c.

We hear that the Rev. Mr. Henly intends to put in

for the prize of the’ next, aveftion jn the French Academy.

S.F E.- That he has Assurance for such at attempt, is

what no one willdoubt’s that be bas a Capacity, is what

every.one will. | i le ih

Somedays since died at’ Lincoln the. Rev. Mr. Lawrence

Echatd, Asthdeacon of Slow, Prebendary of Lowth, in the

Church of Lincoln, and Reétor of Rendlefham ‘and Sud-_

‘borne cum Orford Capetla, ir the County of Suffolk: He was

an ingenious, as well as laborious Author, having published

the Roman History in 5 Vol. 8vo. an Ecclesiastical Hifto-

ry in fol. the History of England in fol. with many others.

Ibid. -- - Mr. Echard worote ony the 2 first Volumes of the

Roman Historys the cther'3 are supposed to have been writ-

ten by Mr. Hughes, Author of the Siege of’ Damascus. His,

Eéclefiastical History contains only the 3 fir Centuries,

and is printed new in 2 Voliines,.820. “His History of Eng-

land is liked by no Party; frora whence one may justly ine,

ferr, that in many accounts, it is most impartial.

The Masters of the Stage coaches that go into the weft,

have had a meeting, in order to concert measures for pre-

venting the frequent robbériés committed upon their paf-

fengers. L.E.- - It is supposed the Coach men have had

a mecting to concert'measures for the continuing of them.

The late Bishop of Rochester lies-fo dangerously ill of the,

gout in his stomach, that a letter met Mr. Morrice, the

high Bailiff of Westminster, fo soon as he landed at Ca-

lais, pressing him to proceed with the utmost diligence

to the place of his residence, if he expected to fee him

alive. Ibid. &c.

His Majesty has order’d a Royal Proclamation to be issued

for summoning the Peers of Scotland to ‘meet at Holyrood-

house at Edinburgh, to clect a Peer to represent that part of

Great Britain in Parliament, in the room of the Earl of Sea-

field and Finlater, deceased. Ibid. D. P. --- This il-

luftrious Peer, being L. H. Chancellor of Scotland, with

the late D. of Queensberry and the E. of Stairs, L. H.

Commissioner and Principal Secretary, had the principal

part-in bringing about the happy union of the 2 King-

doms, by which both bave reaped such unspeakable ad-

vantages.

Fripay, Sept. 4. Ly

Yesterday Capt. Jonas Hanway, ‘belonging to the Navy,

was chose an elder Brother of the Trinity-house, in: the

room of Sir Thomas Matters, deceased. D. P.

The fame day the Governors of Chritl’s Hospital met

Sir Hans Sloane, who Jately resigned, and Dr. Fullerton was

ele&ted. Ibid.

The Earl of Strathmore (whose Brother was unhappily

killed some time since in Scotland, by interfering between

two Gentlemen in a duel) is arrived here from his Travels

beyond fea. P.

On wednesday next, several Merchants of this City, tra-

ding to South Carolina, will entertain the Indian Princes

at Pontack’s, amd take their leave of them, they being on

their departure for their own country. D.C. &c.

Laft night the new born fon of the Lord Harvey was

baptized at his Lordship’s houfé ‘in: Burlington-Gardens,

when his Royal Highness the Prince, and his Grace the

Duke of Richmond. stood Godfathers, and the junior

Dutchess of Marlborough Godmother. P. &c.

On wednesday the Windsor and Chiswick Coachmen

contending for the way, between Knightsbridge and Ken-

fington, drove fo hard together, that the Chiiwick man was

thrown off his box, by which accident one of his wheels

ran over his foot, and broke it all to pieces. D.C. &c.

SATURDAY, Seff: 5.

Yesterday morning the noted Moll King, Elizabeth Tre-

vors, Judith Harris, and Hannah Beedle, were committed

to Tothill-fields Bridewell, by Sir John Gonfon. D. P.

Even.

The Baron du Bumberlere, Resident for the Swiss Can-

tons, is fet out for Dover on his return home. Jé/d.

The Nelson having discharged her lading, and taken

in ballait, is come to Union-stairs; but the Rattle-fnake is

not caught yet, though it was seen last faturday. D. P.

W.E.

On wednesday Dr. Warner was married to Mi(s Caf-

well, dsughter to Mr. John Cafwell, an eminent Merchant

of this City. C.

Play h.s run very high at Tunbridge, by which many

have tuttered; and it is said, that Mr. Nath has loft up-

wards of 60001. Ibid. S.F.E. WE.

Yesterday the new Sewer was completely finished from

Scotland-yard gate to the Stable-yard, S. James’s. P.

Thursday night died at Marlborough house, S. James’s,

Charles Hodges, Efqs who had been iteward to the late D.

of Marlborough, and the present Dutchess-Dowager, up-

ward of 30 years, and had acquired an estate of about

| 30,000 1, with great reputations ghe byk of which elkitg

| forhim. 8.

to chufe a Physician to the said Hospital in the room of

‘oes to his fon, one of the Clerks in the fix Clerks office;

and the rest tqghiis g*daughters. D.F. WE. LE.

Yesterday a Woman pretty well dreiled, fat down on a

Benth in Silvereftrect, ‘by Golden-square, and was seized

with a fit of an apoplexy, and expired soon after, F, p.

W.E.

Laft wednesday Mr. Barneby in great Russel-street,

Bloomsbury, being just come from prayers, fat down jn

the parlour, and died of a fit of an apoplexy. 4 Feey.

The estates of Col. Charteris in Middlesex. Weftmore.

land and Lancashire, has been seized on for his Majesty, 33

being forfeited to the Crown upon the said Colonels eon.

viction of felony. §. F. £.

Col. Charteris hath presented the R. H. Sir Robert Wat.

pole with a horse-furniture of green velvet, curiously em-

broidered with gold of great value. ZL. E.

Thursday last several felons cait for transportation atthe

last assizes held at Winchester, were brought-to town, in

order to be flipped off with the réft of the transports for

his Majesty’s plantations in America. W. E.

On wedneiday was entered at the Custom-houf, from

Smyrna, a fine Porcupine alive, which came by the Doro.

thy, Capt. Morley, and is said as a present to Capt. Lifle,

and he will be brought from the Custom-house to the

Sword-blade = Where are lodgings preparing

Yesterday in the evening died at his habitation in Fleet.

‘treet, Mr. Smith, a very famous artist for making Glafj

eyes. bid.

On tuefday last died at Oxford, the Rev. Dr. Gibson,

Provost of Queen’s College, Reétor of Farthingitone in

Northamptonshire, and Prebendary of Lincoln and Peter.

borough Cathedrals. JZ. E.

The Dutchets-Dowager of Marlborough hath contraéted

with Mr. Risbach, the famous Sculptor, for making the

effigies of the late Duke, in ordtr to their ['t:] being

erected at Blenheim-house in Oxfordshire; and also for

inferibing a Dorick column, near 10 foot diameter, all the

actions of his Grace, the expence whereof will amount te

about 30001. did.

Thursday night Mr. Franklyn was taken up by 2 of

his Majesty’s Messengers, and yesterday was carried to

Windsor, in order to be examined before the principal

Secretary of State. Crafts-man.

_Monpary, Sept 7:

His Majesty has been pleased to nominate and appoint

Edward Edlin, Esq; to be one of the Barons of his Mas

jesty’s Court of Exchequer in Scotland, in the rooin of Ed-

mund Miller, E‘g; deceased. C.

On faturday last a special Mefienger was fent from the

Admiralty, to my Lord Torrington, at his feat in Bed-

fordshire. P.

This morning her Grace’the Dutchess of Norfolk {et out

from her house in Pall-Mal! for the Bath. Jé/d.

By letters from Plymouth, dated the 2d init. the South-

Sea Company received advice, that their ship Bridgen,

Capt. Webiter, was arrived there with a cargo of {nuff and

sugar, in 52 days from the Havana. P.

Thursday night Mr. Franklin was ordered to be admit-

ted to bail: and faturday night the Printer and Publ:fher

of Fog’s Weekly Journal were admitted to bail, they ha-

ving been taken up for the Paper of fat. Jul. 18. Jia.

The Page of the Back-itairs, who was mentioned to have

been charged with a robbery on Hounslow-Heathgand care

ried before a Justice of the Peace, was, we hear, taken up

again for the said faét, and confined at Windsor, in order

to further examination. Jéid. --— Tho’ it is no nero thing

for Courtiers to rob the Country 3 yet they seldom do it im

this open, venerous manner, which gives persons ar oppor

tunity of defending their money by force of arms, if thy

please.

We hear that the Indian Princes were hizh!y diverted

at Mr. Fawkes’s Booth in {mithfield fat. last 3 but more elpte

cially with his dexterity of hand, at which they expretied

the greatest admiration and pleasure imaginabic, .as was

plainly perceived by their gestures and countenances, as

well as by the Interpreter, who told Mr. Fawkes that the

King and Prince declared, that they had never yet Leer

fo agreeably diverted, and desired to tee it over again; but,

above all, they were surprized at the calling the cards

down one by one; and when the King had viewed one ot

the cards, and faw nothing faftcned to it, he was amazed 3

and all of them went away with a generous acknowiecge

ment of the pleasure they had received. D. P.

Lait week at the Bedford Horse-races the first day's piste

was won by John Rich, Fig, matter of Lincoln's tin hes

theatre; and the 50 guineas plate by Mr. Sheppard. They

had exceeding good iport, and the Dukes of Bectord and

Kent, several other Lords, and much good company¥

partakers of it. D. F.

Thursday last a large quantity of diamonds were taxen

at the Star-inn in Southwark, by Mr. St. Hill, terveyor‘

his Majesty’s land carriage: they were in a {mall box, (a"

came by the Portfinouth Waggon) which he iminediats

carried to the custom-houte. Jéid.

“tl fee ye,

2

Friday last Mr, Taylor, an Atrorney, who locges at a

[Page 3.]

Patter’s in Red-cross-street, hanged himself in his room,

pat his life was timely faved, by his landlord s coming up,

who.cut him down; and proper means being used, he

yeas brought to himself 5 since which proper care has been

taken of him. Ibid. —~ The hindering th 5 Attorney

fron doing justice upon himself, by putting in this demure

“er, was I believe an improper way of proceedings it being

out of Term. P

VESDAY, Spt. 8.

Yesterday the Indian King, Prince, &e. went in 2

coaches about |! o clock to the Plantation-oflice, White-

hall, where the Lords Commissioners fat, to acquaint them

with some articles that had been drawn up for trading

with their country. They were attended by a serjeant of

the foot-guards, and a file and a half of grenadiers 5 and at

the Plantation-office attended 2 serjeants and 2 files of gre-

gidiers- ‘They ftaid about an hour, ard were shewed fe-

yeral things designed for them as presents, viz. {everal fine

frelocks, with shot, powder and ball, in casks, and many

ether things, with which they fcemed to be mighty well

reased. And on wedneiday next the articles are to be

ned. P.—— Our mercurial Brethren have used great

gariety Of expression in relation to this Indian Monarch

and bis Court: they have called them Ihe Indian Kingss

The 7 Indian Princes 5 he Indian Chieti 3 he 2 Indian

Kings, with 5 Indians their Attendants; Phe Indian King,

and Prince, and 5 Warriors; The Indian King, the

Prince, and Generals; &c. But cur Advertising Brother,

The Daily Polt, bas been mof? exact 3 and given us the par-

ticutar names of every one, in his Paper of Aug. 11. which

are bere subjoined, as proper for all curicus persons to get

by heart: King Ouka, Prince Catergutia, Chict-General

Vethtow, General Clogoitta, Gen. Calanah, Gen. Unnow-

conow, avd Capt. Oucounakah.

WepvNeEspay, Seft.

On faturday in the evening Mr. Alderman Parsons, with

his Lady and Famiy, arrived at his feat at Ryegate in

Surrey, and is [are] expected in town the latter end of

this week. C.

Yesterday the Commissioners of his Majesty’s board of

‘works, gave the necessary orders for preparing the lodgings

at St. Jamess, against the return of the Royal Family in

town TJéid. D. F.

His Grace the D. of Cleveland is now given over by

his Physicians, he having been {peechleis for some hours.

dbid. D. F.

Yesterday morning her Grace the Dutchess of Norfolk

fet out from her howe in Pall-mall, for the Bath, to drink

“the waters, being in an ill state of health P.

On- monday last a domestick belonging to the E. of Bur-

lington, was killed by a stag in his Lordship’s park at

Chiswick. Ibid. D. F. calls him an Indian iteg.

On faturday last her Grace the Dutchess Dowager of

Marlborough was at Windsor Caiile, to wait on her Maje-

fly, and met with a very gracious reception. D F.

Extraé of a letter from South Carolina, Fauve 12.

. W E have lately had a most fuccelsful cheat put upon

us, by one Alexander Cummings, Eq who first came

* here between 3 and 4 months since. He firit began his

"¢ game by issuing out promiilory notes, and by his pun-

* ctual payment of them, they acquired a credit and cur-

*rency with (ready) money. He then ereéted a loan

* office of his own, signed great quantities of his own notes,

‘and emitted them upon loan at 10 per Cent. Int. the

“borrowers mortgaging their estates to hin for security:

‘by which he had an opportunity of passing as many of

* his own notes as he pleaicd, with which he bought up

* abundance of gold and silver, and a great deal of coun

* try produce, which he flipped away continuully.

* bought several large plantations, built

“walls 3 foot thick 3 which he called his treaury. Latt-

‘ly, having drawn bills of exchinge, to a consideravle

“number, and fold them for ready cath, he went away

* publickly in a man of war bound home, and it is com-

* puted he hath not carried off jeis than 15,000 l. sterling.

P. 8. FE. This may not be trie.

Philadelphia, Fune 18. We have advice by Capt. Bur-

tows, from the Bay of Honduras (but ait from Jamaica)

that when hefwas in the bay, in February last, the Spaniards

had taken several vessels, most of them’ New-England and

Rhode-Island men. P.

New York,<Fuly 20. There is a letter from Capt. Will

nis, giving an account of his being plundered by the

Spaniards, who took from him some bread, alli his bacon,

ad hiswatch. D.P. §. J. E.

iS

o.

4

Edinburgh, Aug. 27. On tuefday one Jxmes Bridie, a

Bookbinder of this City was found barbarously murdered,

at the head of Forreitersewynd: A vagioond fellow is in

eustody, supposed to know some thing of the wu. cr 5 and

there are warrants out against some young nen Who make

4 considerable figure. P. §. 2. E. '

efterday the laws against printed cillicues and Indian

damasks were put in execution; tie penalty ior wearing da-

He|

a flone house with|

’ and Milan 3

masks is 260 1. and for wearing printed callicoes § 1. for

each offence.

rious forner and house-breaker, ‘who. escaped from the ¢ity

prison, and was confederate with Lewis Campbell (lately

hanged) in most of his villanies, was brought in and com-

mitted to the irons.

ner; which even a Scotch-man of our Society could not

explain.

ing to Tiaac Manley, Efqs was murdered in Salutation-

a

maker, who was taken in the said alley, he fays fhe was

seized with a fit of vomiting, of which fhe died 5 but ie

veral persons having heard murder cried out, and there

appearing marks_of violence on her, he was comuinitted to

Newgate.

a sample of wheat and itraw, produced from Sicilian grain.

The Gentleman who gave directions to have it exposed,

avers, that out of the 3 bushels he had fown, the produce

Was 22 barrels; and is ready to furnish any person with

{uch teed at a reasonable price.

General, is made L. Chief Baron of his Majesty’s Court of

Exchequer.

in Stune-batter, was killed by some ruffians that were drink-

ing in his house, who calling for his reckoning at their ab-

{conding, was stabb’d and haek’d by the said r..ffians with

First, this alehouse keeper was killed by some rufhians 5 next,

yary 4 and it is generally thought that the Imputation of ‘his

| Fripay, Sept. 4.

P.

S. F.E. of sue:

Ed.nburgh, Aug. 41. On friday last Will. More, a ndto-

The Daily Pokt omits the word Sor-

Dublin, Aug. 25. Laft night Maigaret Major, belong-

lley on Cork hill, as is supposed, by one O Neal, a Shoe-

C. PF. BP. .S. J.

Dublin, Aug. 29. Yesterday was shewn at the Tholfel,

C. D.P.

We hear that Tho. \arley, Efg; his Majesty’s Attorney-

C. P.

Sept. 1. Latt might John Fergu‘on, an alehouse keeper

butchers knives, and made off. C. who forcalling. D.P

Th*s article contains several surprizing particulars.

be called for his reckoning 5 then was stabb’d and hack’d

by the said ruffians after their absconding; avd after all

this, be at aft made off. To i/luffrate this pafage, which

no doubt is good Irth, and reconcile it ta the belief of an

Englifo Reader, requires the learning of jome Hivernian

SPECULATIST

From the Pegasus in Grub-street.

On thurfday last that learned Politician Francis Walfing

ham, Eiq3 was fiezed with a violent Fever, attended with a

Deliriuia, and is visited by Dr. O47bus, who thinks his life in

great danger. He has been observed to utter frequently, with

great vehemence, the words Franh/yn, AxSurf? and Trea-

having lately received the fum of 312]. 18s. 6d. is the

cause of this disorder. If the poor man should recover, he

cannot give a better confutation of this charge, than by

continuing to Write in the fame {tyle and {pirie with his last

pape r.

FOREIGN NEWS.

THursvbDay, Sept. 3.

Veferday arrived the Mail due from France.

Alicant, Aug. 23. N.S. The troops and transports re-

main as in my last; the preparations for their departure

continue going on but flowly: the ships have all received

1 month’s pay, and will speedily have afecond. D.

Genoa, Fuly 13. Signor Veneroto, who was fent by the

Senate to the island of Corsica, with powers to treat with

the Rebels there, is returned, without success; he went

to their camp the last night before he came away, but

was answered by Pompiliani, their chief, That the Corf-

cans were concerned to fee a person of bis merit, employed

on such an errand: That they venerated him for bis bo-

nefty and integrity: That his milduejs and coud nature

had jufily acquired him the glorious title of Fxther of his

Country: That they exhorted him to join with them to

protec an oppressed people, that if interefe only induced

him to return to Gensa to fave bis estate, they offered him

the Regal Dignity, with assurances of entire obedience if

he would accept of the Government. Since his departure

they appear resolved to riique any extremities rather than

submit. C.P. 4 Even.

It is written from Lisbon, that an accommodation was

at last made between that Crown and. the Court of Rome;

and that the King had nominated the Count de Galveas

as his Ambassador, together with the Cardinal de Motta,

to compliment the Pope upon his election. C. D. P.

Vienna, Aug. 26. Two couriers are arrived from Genoa

that from Genoa is said to have brought news

that the Spanish fleet lay reity to put to fea 5; and that

the K. of Sardinia w s assembling all his forces, confilting

of 30,000 inen in Piedmont, without any one being able

to penetrate into his deligns. S$. F. EF.

ery

we

Paris, Sept. 6. N.S. The Sieur Marconnay, a Physici-

an, Makes a great noite here with his sympathetick powder,

health, holds frequent councils on the affairs of,

conjuncture; bus we are {liJl uncértain, what

Highness will take,’ in case of a war between

and the allies of Seville. Paax cas

Florence, Aug. t9. Our Great Duke, who is in: perfec 34

the Emperor ©”

D. P:

Hari, Sept. 8. N.S. A Gentleman undef the Marquifs

Vifconti at Brussels, writes thus to his friend; That at laff

a war is unavoidable, the Fmperor rejeGting all that is of-

fered him on the-part vA

his resolution never to dep

iruple allidnce and London: declares he will ran the ba-

zard of a defeent in Italy, rather than depart from his

resolutions.

the allies of Seville: perfifts in

art from the'treaties of the guas

P.

Monpay, Sept. 7.

Saturday arrived the Mail due fromUolland; as did yeffere

day that due from France.

Vienna, Aug. 30. N.S. We hear; that the Imperial Mi-

nifters at ché Courts of the Allies of Seville will be’ ordered

home upon the firit news of, the Spaniards being at fea 5

and that their Ministers here will be ordered to depart at

the same time.

to rendezvous near Presburg; and their

upon the road to Fiume.

pafige through the Ecclesiastical State for the mperial

troops, provided they behave well, and pay for what they

want 3 and the great Duke of Tuscany is treating with

the Emperor’s Commissaries about quartering a numbet. of

Iimperialitts in his Dutchy. An—

nople has brought advice, that the

dered 16,060 Taibkesias and other troops, to be transported

to Trebizond, to join the Bafhaw of Tauris, who is

threatened to be besieged by an army of 80 or go, coe

The 10,000 mien a, a for Italy, are

aggage is actually

The Pope is said to have granted

from Constanti-

rand Signior had or-

Persians. C.

Paris, Sept. 4. An express from Spain has brought ad-

vice of the arrival of the flotilla in the bay of Cadiz, the

18th patt. Lda.

Set. 13. Letters from Madrid, of the 3eth past, advise,

that the King and the whole Court arrived at Seville trom

Cazaillathe 23d. Ibid. P. D.P.

Frankfort, Sept. ©. According to the last letters from

Vienna the war is inevitable, the Emperor perfitting more

resolutely than ever not to accept any conditions from

the part of the allies of Seville, that is contrary to the

tenour of the Quadruple Alliance. These letters add, that

the Imperial Court had received advice, that tne Can-

tons of Switzerland had {ent orders to the troops that

are in the service of Spain, not to aét against the Impe-

rialifts. D. P.

Mefcorv, Aug. 17. The Empress has ordered Count Wra-

tifliw to be acquainted, that fhe was ready, inilead of

30,000 men, to furnish 50,000 men to the Emperor his

matter, in cafe he desired them 3 and it is said her In pe-

rial Majesty has ordered a new levy to be made of 40,900

men. E. P.

Warsaw, Aug. 24. The King arrived here the 22d inft.

about § in the evening s and was complimented by all the

Senators, and other persons of diitinétion. D. F.

Tuespay, Sept. 8,

Moscow, Aug. 17. N.S. On the 14th the Infante Don

Manuel, brother to the K. of Portugal, arrived here from

Italy. C.

WEDNESDAY, Sept. 1.

This Day arrived a Mail from Flanders.

Dresden, Sept. 1. N.S. "Tis given out here, that the P.

Royal of Prussia is upon the road to Vienna. Severs Ro-

man Catholick families having been {fettled in this Eleéto-

rate, obtained at the intercession of her Electoral High-

ness, the free exercise of their religion Upon which the

principal Gentlemen and Clergy of Saxony, thought it

their duty to fend a deputation to his Majesty, to repre-

fent to him the dangerous consequences that might attend

{uch a privilege. ‘he King’s answer was, ‘ That there

‘ was no law divine or humane to deprive his Roman Ca-

‘ tholick subjects of their liberty of conscience, or of the

* exercise of their religion in private houses. C. :,

Cologr, Sept. 8. On tueiday in the evening arrived an

express from Vienna, who was soon overtaken by another,

when they proceeded together for Brussels, being follow’d

by a third, whilst a fourth took the road of Neus for Hol-

land. ‘The contents of their dispatches are kept very fe-

cret. Ibid.

Hamburch, Sept.8. They write from Hanover, that on

the sth init. an order arrived there from London, for the

troops quartered along the Elbe, and towards the frontiers

of Wolteinbuttle and Heffe-Caffel, to hold themselves ina

readiness to march, so as to be able to form an army in

alittle time. Jéid.

ani pretends it is good against the meafles and f{mail-pox,

by putting a doie into 3 ounces of the person’s blood that

is threatened with it, and making him drink of his Elixir of

lite 4 times a day, in 24 hours the vengin shall be thrown

( out by perspiration. 7°.

Vienna, Aug. 30. Letters from Constantinople advise, that the Grand Signior was marched from thence to take the field in person; but that it was supposed he would stop at Aleppo, while his forces endeavoured to recover the fort of Tauris. Ibid. D. T.

[Page 4.]

“South Sea 102 7 8ths, a 3. South Sea Annuity 108 |

On Tuesday Stocks were,

4th. Bank 145. India 184 3

wel §+ Three per Cent.

ty 96 1 - Million

ank 108. African 44.

me y ork Buildings 26, 23, 26, 24 3 4ths, ag 1 4th. Royal

Assurance (1001. paidin) g1 1 4th. London ditto (131.

id in) 12 1 8th. Bank Circulation 51. South Sea

nds 5]. 9. a1@s. India ditto rt 15s. EnglishCop-

per 31.7.8. Welsh ditto 11. 10s. 6d.

The Course of Exchange.

Amsterdam 34 5 Madrid 42 5 8ths

Ditto at fight 34 3 Bilboa 42

Rotterdam 347 if Leghorn 51 1 half

Antwerp 35 1 Genoa 54 1 half

Hamburgh 33 1 Venice 49

Paris at Fioht 32 3 8ths Lisbon 5s. 6d. a 3 8ths

Bourdeaux at fight32 48th | Portoss. 4d. 7 8ths

Cadiz 421 half | Dublin 10 1 half

Prices of Goods at Bear Key.

per Quarter per Quarter

Wheat ——18 to 25 | Hog Peas——15 to 17

Rye —— 10 to 13_{ Boiling Peaa— 19 to 22

Barley — 11 to'13 6| Pale Malt —11 to 20

Oats —7 to 14 Brown Malt—1z to 17 6

HorseBeansis5 to 22 | Tares —~— 22 to 28

Coals 21 s. to 22 s. 6d. per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 — 15s. to 20s. per Hundred.

Hops 1729 — 208. to 35s. per Hundred.

Hops 1730 — 358. to 55s. per Hundred.

Rape Seed 111. to 11]. 15s. per Latt.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

This Day is published,

Number If. containing 20 Sheets 1m Foie, Priee 3 5. 6 de of

N UniversaLt Hisrory, irom the eariieft Account ot Time

w ibe prelens; Which comprizes notoply the General History

of he World, but that ot every particular Empire, Kingdom, and

State, trom irs felt Foundaion to its Dissolution, or to our own

Time; with an exa& Account of the Migration, and Ccnqgueft: of

eve y People, (he aucceflions and Reigns of their respeive Princes,

thei: Rehyion, Government, Customs, Learning, &c. The whole

immediate!y extraGed {tom the original Authors, and illuftraced with

Deceilury Maps, Cuts, hronological and o:her Tabies.

' ‘Yo be continucs Monthly.;

Printed J. Batley io Pater Nofter R-w, E. Symon in Cornhill, N.

Prevott against Southampton Street in the Sirand, TT. Osborne in

Gray’s-.nn, and J. Crokace near Sts Dunstans Church in Fieet-

Street 5 and fold by T. Payne at the Crown in Ivy- Lane, near Pacr-

Nofter Row; of whem may be had Numb I. ‘

N. B. Number LIL. is in the Press, aad will be {peedily pus’.

This Day is published,

THE New Political State ot Great Britain. Including the publick

Affairs of foreign Courts, 8c. Numb. VIIE. for the Month otf

August 17 0. being the second ot Vol. 11. Containing, I. A Continua-

tion of che journal of the King of Poland’s Camps at Mulhberg and

Radewitz. I. The Bthop of Metz’s Mandate concerning the Thefes

whi bh @aall be maintained in his Diocese. 1/1. A Sumnmuary of the

Emperor’s Decyee concerning the Treaty of Sevilie; of M, de Cha-

weny, the rre:.ch Minister at Ratisbon, his Rematks thereupon; and

of an Answer coche said Remarks. !V. Advices trom foreign Parts;

particularly from Constantnople, Jerufalem, Moscow, Petersburg,

* Ceuta, Drelden, Augsburg, Milan, Rome, Vienna, Broflels,; Ham-

burgh, Danwk, Florence, Venice, Leghorn, Genoa, Naples, Bar-

Celoua, Compengne, Paris, Hague, Racisbon, Boston in New-Eng

la. d, Anapolis Royal in Nova Scotia, and Ky gfton in Jamaica;

with Exisaéts of Letters, containing Accounts of the most remark-

able Occurrences Abroad. V. Domestic ‘sews i in which arecom-

“gushed Advices trom Dublin, Edinbuyh, Oxford, Cambridge,

in for, &c. and Accounts of several Accidents, Preferments,

Dea hs, &c. VI, Political Reflections on our Party- Writings; an

Account of Rebellion, and an Enquiry into the Nature and Quality

“or the prefenc Infur:e@tion of the Natives ot Cordica; never bejore

gpubished.

~ Le & 0.)

Protea by A. Campbell in King: street, Westminster, for B. Creake,

in Jermyn-street, gear S. James's Church, T. Payne in Ivy-lane; J.

Biindicy, in New Bond ft eet 5 J. Brotherton in Cornhill ;‘T.Worrali,

at the Judge’s Head in Fleet-street; J. Penn, V estminster-Hall. (Price

Where may be bad any single Number.

This Day is published,

Compleat Treatiie of Practical Navigation demonstrated from

xs rft Principies, together with all the necessary Tables. To

Wb ch are aaded the uieiul Theorems of Menfuration, Surveying and

~-@t the Academy tn Tower-street.

ad

Practice. Written for the Use

ith their Application vo

a Us By Archibald Patoun, Fellow of

Gauying,

he Royal Society.

‘ Sens ag for Robert Willock at Sir Isaac Newton's Head

in Cornhil.

a Where may be bad, ‘

I. Arrian’s History of Alexander the Great's Expedition. Tran-

flat-d trom the Greek with Notes, by Mr. Rooke, in 2 vols.

li. Tue Choice. Beir > a@ Colle&ion of 250 ot the mott celebra-

Engiith Songs. f

mul The Tea Table Miscellany, or Allan Ramsay’s Collection of

cots Sa ys.

oO oer

This Day is publise’,

An OCCASIONAL WRITER.

En! evit anqnam

Iile dies, mihi cume ticeas tma dicere fala?

En! erit, ut liceat totum mibi serve per erbem? Vincit.

Printed for A. Moore near St. Pauls, :~ 30. and fold by the Book-

fellersand Pamphiet Shops of London aad Westminster. [Price 6d.}

At Josuva Storuer p's Buarding-School in Charles-street, St.

James’s-square, '

AXE taught Excrisu, Larix, GREEK and FRrKxcH. Also

Writing and Arithmerick, atter an ealy and peculiar midn er.

Merchants Accompts (or the true Italian Method ot Book keeping)

and the Mathematicks. ;'

Also Drawing, Musick, Dancing and Fencing; and every Qualifi-

cation proper tor young Gentlemen design'd tur Offices or Employ-

ments either at Heme or Abroad.

N.B. The Hovle is'fspacious, and the Apartments accommodated

according to the different Studies of the young Gentlemen.

This Day is Publisher, -

Rrian’s History of Alexande:’s Expeaw:.. Translated from the

Greek, with Notes Hifturical, Geographical and Critical. By

J. Rooke, in 2 Vols. Towhich is prefi.ed» Mr. Le Clerc’s Criticitm

upen Quintus Curtivs, and Remarks «n Perzonius’s Vindication ot

thac Author. Printed tor LawionGlliver against St. Dunstan’s Church

in Fleet-street. Where may be had, just publishea,

The History of the Council of Conttance. Written in French by

James Lenfant, and now tranfeted trom the lat Ainilerdam Eaision,

and illustrated with curi us Coppyr Places. In 2 Vois, grim Likewise

Fresnoys New Meibou or studymg tiftory. Travflatea by Dre

Rawlinson. In 2 Vols. 8vo. Price 108,

BUOKS priated ior JouN BROTHERTON, 4 tic Bidie next we

Fleece ‘Tavern in Corrhill.

Blar’s Seomons, 5 Vols.

Lite ot Oinver Cromw el

Gordon’s Geuy. Grammar

Boileau Ocevie p. etijue

Pilgrim’s Proyreis

Taies of the Fairies, 3 Vol,

Enyliin Tutor

Mulicai Dictionary

Shakespear’s Plays

Co. greve’s Works

Garih’s Ovia

Cambden’s Britannia

Burkit on the New Testament

L’Bftrange’s Josephus

Tillotfuon’s Works, 3 Vole.

Bacon’s Works, 4 Vols.

Lock’s Works, 3 Vol.

Oldenburgh of Exchanges

Addison’s Works, 4 Vols. 4to

Puffend ri’s Law of Nature

Bailey’s D tionar,, tL.

Wuod’s Instituces, tol.

Carckas Rates, fol. boye ’s Tclermachus

Stevens’s Spanish Diienary Me'ge’s Stace 1 Britain,

With Varicty ot single Pia) sad Parmph ets.

This Day is publiher,

(H’ritten originally for the Lutertainment of the King by tne celebrated

Madam de Gomez.)

GEcket Memoirs of Ue Count of Persia. Printed for

_ Weaver Bickercon, in Dev: reux-Court, near the Midale-Tempie.

Prhe 558, Uj ch « may be had,

I. The Curions and Prefitavie Gardener; with a Description of

the Great Aloe and Torch Thifiles. By Mt. COWELL ot Hoxcon,

Il. Dr. Woods Anatomy vf the Heart, and Origine aud Circulation

of the BLoapn.

IL, A View of the present Affairs of Int LANnn; containing@

Liftot ABseNTEES, ana Modest Pr. p fal, by Dr Swirt.

Gut Published,

In a neat Pocket Volume, i rice 28. 6u. the Second Edition with Ad

j ditions of

THE Intelligencer. By the cecbraced Author of the Taleot a Tub,

Omne vafer vitiam ridenti Flaccns awico

Tangit, @ Admiffus circum pracordia ludit.

Containing, The inholpttabie Temper ot "Squire Wethei. = A Vin-

dicaiion of Mr.Gay, and the BeggarsOperae = The Folly of Gaming.

A Description of what the World calls DilCreion, A Represen-

tation of the present Condition of I eland. The Chara@ers ot Co-

rufodes.and Lugenio. A Dialogue between Muliniz ana Timo-

thy. The tovlifh Methods of Education among the Nobility.

Tim. and Gay’s Fables. Proposals in Proje and Verse for an unt-

versal View of the eminent Writers of che Holy Scripcures. Su

Ralph the Patriot turn’d Courtier. The Art ot Story-teiling Pro-

metheuss Art ot Man-making, and the Tale of a T--d. The

Services the Draper has done his County, ang che Steps taken co

ruin it The Adventures of the three Brothers, George, P trick

and Andrew. The Marks ot Ireland's Poverty, dhewn to be evi-

dent Proots of ‘its Riches. St. Andrew's Day, and the Draper’s

Birth day. The Hardships of the Irith ~ deprived of cheir

Silver, and decoy’d intu America. Dean Smedley gone to feek his

Fortune, The Pheasant and the Lark: A Fable.

Printed for, and fold by Francis Cogan, ot the Middle-semple-gace

in Fleet-street.

Numb. III. for the Month of July, of

H Iforia Literaria: Or, an exatt and eaily Account of the

most valuable Books published in the several parts of

Eu.ope.

Floriferis ut apes in faltibus omnia Libant

Omnia nos itidem, Lucret. °

Printed for N. Prevoit, over against Southampton-street in

the Strand, and E. Symon in Cornhill, and fold by J. Crokat

and L, Gulliver in Fleet-street. To which is adued, The

resent State of Learning, Extra€ts of several Letters from

aris, Lyons, Zurich, and a Catalogue of new Bovks im-

orted dwing the said Month of June, by N. Prevoit and

omp.

Whire may be had, Number I. and II. for the Months of

May and June, and

A new History of England, in English and French,

Questions and Answer, for the Use

from Mr. Rapin Thoyras, 1°,

he fame Book in English alone.

Tabula Chronologica Historie Simce Connexa cum Cyclo qui

vulgo Kia Tie Dicrtur, in 3 flicets, Rome 1729.

by

of Schools, ¢xtraéted

4

Dr. GODFREY's General Cordial,

So universally approved of for the Cholick, and all manner

Pains in the Bowels, Fiuxes, Fevers, Small-Pox Meaf! 2

Rheumatisms, and Keftlcfiness in Men, Yimen, and Child

ren, and particularly for several Ailments incident to Child.

bearing women, and Relief of young Clildren in breeding tl 7

Teeth, iaeed

S fold in most Cities, Boroughs, and Market.

throughout Great-Britain and Ireland;

hunfdon to Broxborn in Herttordfh.re: And tor the Conve

niency of supplying all those parts, there’ are established “a

me BENJAMIN GODFREY thee following Whol 7

sale Warehouses, viz. “i

John Weitlake’s in Queen-street, Bristol;

William Furly’s, Dittiller, at the Black Prince, in th

Market-Place, in the City of Norwich. °

Peter Leadbeater s, Dittiller, in Weft Chester;

Mr. Button’s, Bookseller, on the Bridge at Newcafle

upon Tyne 3

Mr. Brooke's, Distiller, on the Blind-key, Dublin.

As also at my Original Warehouse in Bishopsgate-street

Po City, B

ny reputable Shop-keeper in any City, Borough

Market-Town, where this Medicine is not already fold, may

be supply d at amy of the said Ware-houses with good Allowance.

N. B. The Publick are desired to take Notice, (to prevent

being imposed on) that there is an ill minded Perton who

counterfeits the said Medicine, and puts the Title of God.

frey’s Cordial on the top of the Bottles, and in his Bills given

with the Bottles, he calls it 74e GENERAL COrR.

DIAL, and doves not put the Person’s Name who -prepares

it, but as this Counterfeic Maker is now found out by his

own Confession, he and his Sellers will be prosecuted as the

Law directs (as Impcftors): And to prevent the Buyers trom

being imposd on, I have pat my Christian Name on the

Top of eachi Bottle, which is prepared

By me Benjamin Godfrey, M. D,

The price of each Bote is 6 d.

wanket- Towns

removd from

Oe

The Calefial Anodyne Tinéture: Or, The Great Pain-

Eafing Medicine,

Fx and approv‘d of for its won-

de-ful and never-failing Success, in

giving immediate Ease and Reéiief yn all

manner of Pains, either inward or out-

ward, and is the most certain Remedy in

the World tor a fure and speedy Cure

of the Cholick, and expeliing Wind,

Gripes and Pains in the stomach, the

Pleurify, stitches or pains in the fide back, loins, or any

our parts Kheumatick A.lments, which cause p.ia and

dolor. It hath given ease to a Miracle, when all other Re

ne.ies have tail’d; In the Gravel and Stone in the Kive

neys, it yives cafe forchwith, and b.ings them away to Ad-

_jation, It also facilitates and cautes a speedy Delivery

in Child-birth. “Tis no Quack trifling thing to ailure the

World with, but a ral and welleexpetienced Meu'cine, not

ating by Stupitaction (as Opiates) but by a frigncly, bal-

famick, and fubtile Nature, pacitying the most tivere ard

terrible rscking pains, and carrics off the Cauf, not by

purg ng, but by Transpiration, by Urine, or breaking Wind.

No Family ought to be withontits; and utid outwardly it

cures Sw-llings, Aches, Pains, Numbness or Weikness of

the Joints; “tis excellent for Cramys, and all other aged

Infirm ties, eff.cting Wonde:s in Agues, Fevirs, Small-

pox, &c.

Ic is fold only by Mr. PARKER, Pr'nter, at his

House in Salisbury-Court, or by such pesfons 25 he shall

depute, at Eighieen-pence a Bottle, with printet Directions;

and, if requested, will be brought to any person, by the

Hawker who fells his Penny Pott.

Note, *Tis seal’d as above, to prevent Counterfeits.

To Masters of Ships, Country Shop-keepers, Gre. this publick

Notice ts given,

HAT WILLIAM DICEY, in Counjun@ion with Mr,

Benjamin Okel) (co whom a Roya! Patent is granted) Thomas

Cubb) in Right of Elizabeth bis Wise, late Widow of Mr. Cluer)

and Kobert Raikes, continue, aud jounuy carry on the piepaiing and

vending, butb W holefale and Retail, tha: excellent Meaiciie calied Dr,

Bateman’s Pe@toral Drops, at their Warehouse against the South- door

of Bow Church, at the turther End ot the Church-yard trom Cheap-

ide, London, at which Place (and no other in the City of London)

Retaiiers may be turnidthed, with good Allowance tur Profit, by di-

reGting of fencing to William Dicey or Thomas Cobb and Company,

at the Warehouse aforesaid.

Note, You are cefired to observe, that this o!d accustomed Wares

hou‘e whence all retail Traders trom London were served with the

abovementioned Dropsin the Life-time ot the late Mr. Jolin Ciuer-

_N. B. Rosear Boyp ot Lillington in che County of Lincoin, hae

ving been sttiictea with viclent Kneumatick Pains tor many Years

all over his Boay, ana aicer having tired all other Meaus in vain,

and being reduced to fo weak and low a Condition that he could

not stir out of his Bed, having the Use of all his Limbs taken from

him; but on hearing of tie great Fame of Dr. Baceman’s Pectoral

Diops, he fent to Mr. Wood, Bookseller, ot Lincoln, tur a Bote

there f, and on taking the firtt Dofe he receiv'd immediate Ease,

and a tew Botles pertormedamiraculous and perieét Cure; and al-

tho’ it be near 12 Months since the same was effected we bas nor had

the least Symptom of any Return. The Truth of this will be arcefted

by the said Roseat Born, or any of his Neighbours, any Market Day, at the Caruinal’s Capin Lincoln.

LONDON: Printed by A. Moore, tor Captain Gulliver, near the Temple, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in.

[Price Two Pence]

