The Grub-{treet Journal.

NumB3 32.

Chursdap, AUGUST 13, 1730.

A Differtation on Anagrams, Chronograms,

and Acrofticks: by Mr. Poppy :

Chuse for thy command

Some peaceful province in Acroftic Land.

Dryden.

S the Moderns are allow'd, by the best

p judges, to have exceeded the Antients

in every part of wit: fo likewise they

have the honour of being the Iaven-

tors o: some new kinds of it, un-

known to the early ages. Among

these is Anacram ; the wit of which

confilts in the Resemblance, not of Ideas, but of the

Letters, which compose the Words: that is, when we

find two different words or sentences, which confit of

the very fame individual Letters, differently placed.

Thus an ingenious Anagrammatift is capable of writing

a Satyr, or a Panegyrick on any Person, only by ana-

lyfing his name. *In the Reign of Queen Elizabeth, a

wicked Jesuit wrote a seditious Anagram, against that

excellent Princefs FxizaseTa ——Jezaner. But he was

roundly taken up for it bya learned Proreftant Divine ;

who prov’d his Anagram to be fulfe. not only in mar-

ter but in manner: there being none of the Tn in Fexa-

bel: fo that, tho’ Jezabel was contained in Elizabeth,

et Elizabeth was not contain’d in fezadel.

The two Tradescants, who were very famous about

go years ago, for their Collection of Rarities, had much

of this fort of wit bestow’d on them:

Joannes TRADESCANTUS

Arte notus, annis cedas

Natura, instans es: cedo.

Joannes TRADESCANTUS

Sane vota tran{cendis.

On John Tradescante the elder, deceas’d,

Joun TRapEscANTE

Had innocent Artes.

Can honest Art die ?

Artes cannot die.

To John Tradescant the younger, surviving.

Joun TRADESCANT

Cannot hide Arts.

Mr. Samuel Clark, Author of the Marrow of Eccle-

fiastical History, seems to have been no Iefs happy in a

name fo constituted, as to afford his Friends room for a

great variety of wit. One analyfes it into a Cull-markes,

or Culls a mark, and theo launches out into the follow-

ing Epigram ;

False Lights to Error now our Souls betray ;

Thou art a Cull-markes to direct our way.

From white of Truth we rove as in the dark.

Thy Book’s our Marks-man and Culls out A Mark.

Another strikes two Anagrams out of it ; fuck all Cream ;

and Al clear Musk.

A Curonocram is the expressing of the year, in which

any great action was done, or book written, by the let-

ters contain’d in some sentence. These Letters are ufu-

ally distinguith’d, by having their heads exalted above the

rest, or being written in Capitals: thus Deo optimo ma-

ximo gloria, may express the year 1562, and according

to the Rules of Chronogram must be written after this

manner; Deo optimo MaXimo gLorla. The Capital

Letters in this sentence, being reduc’d to their proper

order, make MDLXII.

One of the most extraordinary Chronograms I have

seen was composed by one Schadenberger, a German Phy-

fician. {t is an Hexaftich at the beginning ot Zwel-

fer’s Edition of the Pharmacopocia Augultana, and con-

tains the year 1651 in every Line.

ManDato Chartz, reparans Zwelfere perennl

Phar MaCa, & zxterno traDe reperta Libro :

Preftans arte DoCes xgro MeLlora parare,

TaLla non zgro phar MaCopora Dabar.

HaC fere, More ferx potls es non traDere faLfa

Carpere Monstrofo, ZolLe, Dente potes.

An Acrostick is when the initial, middle or final Let-

ters of a Copy of Verses make up any Persons’s name.

Some have been fo ingenious as to compose a Poem,

which has had all these Circumstances at once, The

Gentleman who made the Anagram fuck all cream, men-

tion’d above has compos’d a very pretty Acrostick on

that subject, with his Friend’s name running down the

middie, after the following manner ;

Mr.

Ah, Reader, look, theSe chosen Vessels here

Most richly tilled Are with Milk since re ; -

The Author {cims theM and most {weecly strives

To make thee {Uck the Cream of all their lives

From other Books (dEar friend) such Milk thou maift ;

But in this precious Book aL] cream thou haft.

Then {weetly fuck all Cream, and take thy fill 5

Blefling the Lord of Lite for the Auchor’s skill ;

This Book of Lives to reAd I need not woe thee :

The choiceft tood is heRe presented co thee:

All CREAM chen fucK, and much good may itdo thee.

In these kinds of wit did former Members of out

Society excel : in the fame ways might our present Mem-

bers shine. Burt, alas ! we are too apt to aim at wri-

ting after the Parnaffian manner, in which we can never

hope to succeed. Could we but be persuaded to leave

the pursuit of those forts of writing, for which Nature

has by no means formed us; and apply our {elves to

those which seem fitted to our several Capacities; we

should appear much more illuftrious than we do at pre-

fent. Then might the Labours of the industrious Mr,

THEOBALD be weil {pent on Anagrams ; the quaint con-

ceits of the inventive Mr. Smit might be properly be-

ftow’d on Chronograms; and the ingesious Mr. Ratru

might appear to a better advantage in the confinement

of an Acrostick, than he does at present in the loose

Pindarick.

An EPIGRAM, occasion’d by the following sentence

in the Preface to a late Edition of Ifocrates, fent by

an unknown hand.

Me, fi non hoc displicuerit conamen, ut religua Autoris

noftri opera, nitidiore faltem veffitw donentur, non

defuturum.

AY hold, Friend B , quit the Press,

Nor further urge thy Failure,

Thy Author asks no better dress,

From such a bungling Taylor.

Full happily the Man miftook,

Uuknowing of thy Fame,

Who, e’re thoud’ft botch’d or patch’d a Book,

Mifcail’d thee by this Name.

But if this Name {till gives offence.

And Quack thoud’it rather hear,

As nothing shews a Man of sense,

Like knowing his own sphere ;

Confine thy self to License given,

Nor dare beyond thy Trades

Tho’ thou art free to kill the Living,

Yet, prithee, fpare the Dead.

To the Srecutatist, Mr. M—w Con——n—n,

SIR,

I Have the honour of being one of your subscribers to

a book lately published, cail’d the Srecutatisr, and

and hawe since had the pleasure of purfuing ir, from the

Title page and preface. 1 must own, I conceiv’d some

extraordinary hope, being a great admirer of humour,

wherever I meetit, and doubted not, but that you were

more a gentleman, than to break that promif’, you

made your readers in the frontispiece of your book, in

such solemn capital letters. Your preface fiil’d me with

expeétation, for I since rely with’d to find an ample vin-

dication from those foul (currilities, which, 1 doubted

not, were unjustly laid to your charge in the Dunctap.

I am unwilling to be fo ill-natur’d to fay, I was difaps

pointed ; but beg you will, from an unknown friend,

give this advice to the low class of writers of this age.

It is well worth their while to contider, whether they

had ever any reputation, before thay are at the pains of

justifying it; and further, to be cautious how they offer

us.too tempting a Bill of Fare in the beginning ; it is not

only inhancing, but anticipating our pieafure, which ne-

ver fails to lessen our enjoyment ; belides, it is an in-

stance of toomuch modesty, that a cramp of a growing

genius, for, who but a painter that had a diffidence of

his merit, wou'd write the person’s name before the per-

formance ? don’t imagine Mr. Speculatift, this advice

is at all meant for you, for the world knows, if you

want a reputation, it is rather owing to the ill-natur’d

attempts of some envious {criblers to pull down, than to

your want of industry to build one, and as for modesty,

the most bitter of your antagonists never once dared to

accuse yeu of that. I must fay I was greatly disappointed,

but at the same time fear,’twas more owing to my ftu-

pidity, than your dearth of humour : this confeiliion will

hot, I believe offend, since, 1 am convinc’d you will

readily admit the excuse, and thall beg for the future ine

form tion of us dull fouls, who want the art of distin

guishing nicely, that, in the next edition, you may add

the folowing, nota bene, viz. thole papers mark’d with

an Afterisk, are humourous, or else this correction, for

humouros, read dull As to your design of cleariny your

charaéter, 1 should be glad to be inform’d in what mane

ner you think you have doneit, I {uppose, by con efling

your crime (which appears through the whole book) you

hope for absolution, and fo be restor’d to your former

fate of innocence, Bur this, you mutt give me leave to

fay, it I have hit upon your defiga ; and thar it should

mifcarry on your pleading guilty (which you have d ne)

you'll certainty be executed ; for if you can read no bete

ter than you can write, you can hardly hope for bene-

fit of clergy.

Furnivals’s-inn,

Aug. the toth,

Yours,

Wit. SLYBooTs,

LONDON,

TuuRSDAY, Ang, 6,

Yesterday was held a general Court at the East India

House, when the affair of the Super-cargoes was laid

before them ; and atter some debates, the Court lett the

matter to the directors, to proceed thereon as they shall

be adviied. C

A few nights ago a certain officer of the Militia, and

and a Mercer near Covent garden, being in company toge-

ther at a parish entertainmen*, the Mercer upbraided the

Captain with mal-practices {candalous to his Commission,

in fending a fow , wine, &c. home to his family at an

entertain nent of the like kind. This fo enrao'd the

Captain, that he chalenged the Mercer out bur he de-

fired to be excuftd til] the next morning, when he ro-

mifed to meet him {word in hand The Captain went

at the time appointed, but not meeting with his adver.

fary at the place, went to is house and enquired for

him; but t'e Mercer thinking himf If fater in bed than

in acombat with fo bravean adversary, did not appear ;

which adding a fresh whet both to the Captains cou-

rage and passion, he stabbed his tword in the door, fay-

ing, Damn you for a Scoundre!! take that? then marched

home in triumph with the fame valour and condué as

he came. Since which, as the braveft {pirits are the

most forgiving, he has {uffered his indignation to cog]

and has laid up his trusty {word till the next campaign,

in Tothill-fields, gives him an Opportunity to ufe it

with more Glovy, a d the quarrel beea amicably ad-

jutted. said I apprehend, that the most amiable

way of adjusting this quarrel, wiuld have been to invite

the mercer to partake of the fowl, wise, &c. The ocche

fion of this quarrel puts me in mind of a verse im Hu-

dibras ;

———Swords in men of war are teeth,

Which®hey co eat their vidtua's with.

Pa in late —— = private Chapel in Windsor

astle, is given for a Chapel to the G i

Majesty’s outhold, D P . on ee

By our last letters from France we are informed, that

there was a report there (but upon what foundetion

they knew not thata negotiation is in hand, and carried

on secretly, which, it isthought, wil] make the Emperor

easy; and this is by securing the succession of the Ems

= to his own house, in the female branch, in cafe hé

eaves no male-issue. P.

On tucfday morning died, at his habitati -

man’s fields, Sir T ie Matter, " egy 2 Raphi 4

the Comeniffion of the Peace for the Tower-hamlets,

} and married the widow of the late Mr, Rhodes, Book:

feller in Fleet-street, whose estate was fo many years in

cifpute. Jud

Laft night about fix o'clock, Mr Theophilus Rogers,

ancminent Attorney of No.thampton, was found dead

upon his bed in his night-.own, at his Chambers in

Clifford’s-inn, He went to bed very well on tuefday

night ; lal night his laundress not going to make his

bed before fix o’ clock, was the reaion that his death

was not before discovered., did.

Elizabeth Robinson, servant to Mr. Lawr. Kelly in Prin-

ccfs-street near Sto ks-market, having robbed her Matter

of a five nioidore piece of gold, plate, &c. to the value of

upwar s of sol. was yesterday apprehended and carried

Leto e the Lord Mayor, who committed her to New-

gate: The plate was found at a pawn broker’s in Long-

lane, where fhe pawned it for 1,1. D. Ff.

About two o clock yesterday morning 2: lewd woe

men and men were taken out of {several disorderly

houses in Westminster, by vertue of {earch warrants, and

carried to St Mar in’s round-house; and the fame day

were examined, and most of them committed to Tothill-

ficl's Bridewell, by Sir John Gonfon, and about 10

other Justices of the Peace, who met at St. Martin's

veltry. iby

On tuefday last the noted Lucy Hoder, of Swallow-

fircer, wa committed to theGate-house by Justice Lam-

bert, the being charged with robbing a person, late a

Coiach-man to a toreign Ambassador, of © guineas and

some tilver, which he had a tew days before received

for wages. ‘The Coachman fays, that + e followed him

home to his’ lodgings, where the picked his pocket of

the key of his box, out of which fhe took the {aid mo-

ney and made off. -E P.

t is written from Fort William at Bengal, ther Sth of

December last, that 2 Imperial Ships were then up that

river; that the Englif; Governor and Council had or-

dered the Duke of \} ork, Capt. Somers, of 45> tons,

3 guns, andy > men; the Fordwich, Capt Gostright, of

48> tons, 34 guns, and ,6 men; and the Princefs Ca-

roline Galley, Capt. Bracier, of io7 tons, 14 guns and

43 men, to endeavour to take them on their coming

down the river, those Ships having teen commissioned

by the admiralty of Great Britain for that purpose. It

was a ded, that this was done in conjunction with the

Dutch, who had furn thed a like number of Ships for

that service; and that such measures were taken as

would render it impossible tor them to escape. The

Offenders had quitted their factory at Coblon, on the

Coait of Cormandel, and the chi:t was come to the

factory at Bengall. 9S. ‘7. £.

FRIDAY, Aug. 7.

Yesterday morning the Right Hon. the Earl of Che-

ftei field, Lord Steward of the Houshold to his Majesty,

fet out trom his house in St. James’s-tquare, and cross’d

the water at Whitehall to Lambeth; from theace he

proceeded in his coach and 6 to Greenwich, and im-

bask’d on board the Wiliam and Mary Yatch, Captain

Brett, Commander, for Holland. We hear that his Lord-

ship’s flay will not be long there after he has finish’d iis

Commifion, he being expected in England by the King’s

birtheday at farthest. C,

Laft night the Indian Chiefs that lately came from

Windsor, took the Air in St. James’s Park, habited in

rich garments lac’d with gold, pretented to them by his

Mijetty; they were accompany’d by several persons of

quality and distinétion, and a numerous crowd of ipe-

ctators. The Levees are very great every day, persons

ot all ranks and distinétion being admitted to fee them

that behave with decency and good magnets. [id.

Yesterday Nathaniel Gould, Esq, of Hackney, and onc

of the Directors of the Bank, had a letter fent him, that

if he did not put <0 pieces under three bricks within

three yards of the corner of the wall behind Bucking

ham-house, going to Constitution-hill, at 10 0’ clock the

fame nigh’, he should 1un the hazard of his lite. They

also intimated, that they were Gentlemen, reduc'd by

faft-living ; and going abroad to kis \’ajesty’s pianta-

tions, was the reaion of this their request, in order to

bear their charges ; ctherwife they would not come in-

to this modeff demand P.

ws Yesterday at a (court held at the hospital of Bridewell

by Francis Child, Eig; tor Mr Aderman Parsons, (now

abroad) ir, David ( hitty and Dr. Bamber were admite

ted Governors, the Vrefident, Treasurer, Chaplain, Cerk,

and ali the Arts-Masters and Officers of this and the hof-

pital ot Bethlehem were re-e ected, as uiuai, for another

year 5 Committees for both hospitals eleéted, and the tol-

lowing Gentlemen contirm’d Governors, viz. Earl of

Winchelsea and Nortinghom, Mr, Fenry Rogers, Samuel

Child, Eig; Eoward Mother, Eig; Mr. Tho Nath, Up-

holder, Mr. Tho. Royeroft, \'r Jobo Hatlell, Brewer 5

Mr. Jolin Markacm, A pothscary, Mr. John Lee of Eilex-

ftrect, James Shepherd, of the Temp'e, Eq; Barrefter at

Law, Mr. George Blakefley of Caonon-street, Mr. Sae

mucl Smith of Aldersgate-fireet, Mr. Thomas Nichols of

Cheapide, and Mr. Tho. Smith of the fame: After which

the Governors, &c. were handsome ly treated at dinner

at the expence of the following Stewards, Mr. Alder-

man Barnard, Mr. I[awen of Southwark, Mr. Morrice,

Hiph-Bailifl of Westminster, Peter Cock of Camberwell,

Elg; George Welham, of Do€tors Commons, Esq; \Ir.

Vinectn’, Mir. Langley Hill, Mr. Joshua Hinton, Mr. Tho-

mas Ryley, Mr. tdward Dodd, and Mr. William Min-

gay. DP.

Che fame day a servant of Capt. Elwell’s in Dartmouth-

ftrect, Westminster, was commutted to the Gatchouse by

the Coroner’s Warrant, for the murder of her bastard

child. D. 7. .

Saturpay, Aug. 8.

The South Sea Company’s Ships from Greenland and

Davis’s Streights that are arriv'’d, Have enter’d the blub-

ber and fins of 9 whales; they ate not yet all come in. C,

By letters from Messina in Sicily we hear, that several

of ths English Merchants, and others, being very appre-

hensive of a war, great preparations being made for a

defence throughout the Island in case of a descent 5 for

which reason icveral haveremov d their effects, and others

are preparing, which causes trade throughout the Island

to be stagnated to a greatdegree. They are like to have

a plentiful crop of corn this year ; and all their granaries

beiny full of old stores, and most of their fortreffes in

the Island being in a condition to make a long defence in

cafe of an eruption. Ibid.

The Dutchess Dowager of Marlborough won last weck

at Tunbridge 10001, at hazard; her Grace holding 9

mains. D. P.

We hear that her Majesty is about purchasing an estate

at Chiswick, in the County oft \ iddlesex, for 15,0001. 16.

On tuesday morning Miss Fenton, commonly call’d

Polly Peachum, was brought to bed of a boy, at her

lodgings in Cork-street, by Burlington-gardens. did.

On thurfday might, between :1 and 12 0° clock, a

man was attack’d by 2 foot-pads, coming over Middle

Vioorfields; 1 of them beat his lanthorn out of his hand,

and the other run away with his hat and wig. He im-

mediately went to the watch-house in the upper Field,

to make his complaint, Mr. Hilliard at the Cocoa-tree,

the Constable, being then on duty, took out half a dozen

of his men to search the Fields, when he found in the

faw-pit under the shed ia the middle Field 7 fturdy young

fellows, 1 of whom got away, the other 6 he secur’d,

and yesterday morning carry’d them before Mr. Justice

Talbooth at Hoxton, who committed them all to Old

Bridewell, C.

On faturday la@ at the assizes held at Kingston upon

Thames for the County of Surrey, one James Isles, a

Carpenter of Wand{worth in that County, bat for his ex-

traurdinary performances, commonly called young C——s,

who had been indi¢ted at the Lent-assizes for assaulting

one Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, a young woman of about

17 years of age, of ftriét modelty and virtue, in Febru-

ary last, io the dusk of the evening, in the field between

Wandsworth and Putney, as fhe was returning home to

her mother’s, in a most barbarous and inhuman manner

with an intent to ravith her, for which he paid 4¢ |.

He was no sooner discharg’d of that, but he was taken

into custody by virtue of a warrant from the Lord Chief

Justice Raymond, upon an indiétment for perjury. Ibid.

; Oxford, Aug. ¢. The Right Hon. the Earl of Wilming-

ton, Lord Privy Seal, had the degree of Dr. of Laws

conferr'd on him by the university in convocation. The

Profeflor madea very claborate {peech, when he presented

his Lordship to the Vice-chaneellor. P.

The mother of the monstrous child lately dropt at

Kensington, has been discover'd, and taken up by the

Church-wardens of that parith. S. #. E.

Since the Dog-days began, an enthusiaft from Hounf-

dich in this City, hath taken up his residence at the

Black-horse inn in Slough, where pretending to have cer-

tain strange vilions reveal’d to him, relating to the state,

he hath been many times at Windsor to acquaint her Ma-

jesty therewith, and requesting that some person :a ax-

thority may attend him at his quarters aforesaid, to be

convine’d of the truth of his reiation: Her Majesty has

been pleas'd to order Mr. Harman Hobourg, one of her

Gentlemen, to go to him and enguire into the necessities

of the spirit, and supply it accordingly. Ibid.

On monday the 31ft of August will be paid at the

pay-office in Broad-street, 2 months pay due in 6, to his

Majesty’s Ships under-mention’d. Ending

Romney —— —r5 July, 1729

Dito ——- -— 15 Jan.

Severne 25 july, 1729 Ibid |

The great fortune of Miss Baker, who lately dy'd at

Clapham, devolves to the crown. W. E.

Yesterday morning dy’d at his lodgings in Jermyn-

ftrect, aged 74, Major General Crewder, who in the

Reign of K. James Il was a Colonel of horse in the

camp at Hounslow: He rofe, through bis extraordinary

merit, to the rank of a Major General, but never attain’d

any other preferment than the post of Lieutenant-Colo-

nel to General Lumley’s regiment ot horse, which he

discharg’d with great honour and fidelity in the Reigns

of K. William and Q. Anne, and was in all the battles

and fieges which happen’d in that time. He submitted

to a tedious course of iliness with a true christian pati-

ence, and dy’d tincerely lamented by all that had the ho-

nour and happineis of his acquaintance. He had a {mall

pention from the Crown, which (’tis believ’d) will be

continu’d to his widow, fifter to Brigadier General-Fie]d.

ing. L. E.

Monpay, Axg.1o.

Windsor Caflle, dug.7. Wis Majesty has been pleas’d

to appoint the Right Hon. James Earl of Waldegrave, to

be his Ambassador extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to

the most Christian King. C.

We have advice from the Hague, of the sth instant,

N.S. that Count Sinzendorf, the Emperor’s Minister

there, had, by way of discourse, mention’d an expedient

that might satisfy both his Imperial Majesty and the Q.

of Spain; namely, by placing (instead of 6 00 Spaniards,

or 6000 Swiflers) 3000 English, and 3 co troops of

the Empire in the towns of Tuscany and Parma, P,

William Gibfon, who not long fiance made fo mach

confusion-among the Quakers, has taken the Coffee-

house in Birchin-lane, lately call’d the London-assurance

Coffee-house, and on faturday morning hung up his sign,

on one side of which is represented a person lying on

his back, his hat and wig lying by him, and his head

bloody, several hurrying from him to hide themselves be-

hind a bufh; and at some distance is represented a watery

Place, on the further fide of which the same person is

seen wading, having a crutch under one arm, making

toward a ftile, on which is a person holding one of his

crutches, and endeavouring to help him over, from

whence a path leads to some houses ona hill. The

other fide of the sign varies only in that he is lying on

his face ; and in another on the Backside of the House he

is fitting on the ground, wiping off his blood and tears

with a handkerchief; in each is represented the moon ri-

sing; and under them in capital Letters,

GiBsON FROM GRACECHURCH-STREET.

From this sign he would have it understood, that the

bloody person lying on the ground is himself ; those go-

ing from him to hide themselves, Quakers, who had

abused him: The person helping him thro’ the water to-

ward the Houses on the Hill, 2 Friend who had greatly

affifted him in his troub'es, and in putting him into this

house. D.f.

They write from Weston Underwood near Oney in

Buckinghamshire, thata few days ago a carpenter having

a litre wheat near that p'ace, went with his Apprentice

to reap it; the former struck the latter for not doing his

Business according to his instru@ions, the other returr’d

the blow, both fighting with their Sickles; in the com-

bat the man struck the Master with the point of his

Sickle with such violence, that it ran in on one side of

his Belly, and out at the other, tearing his Inirails to

pieces, especially as he was endeavouring to pull it out,

fo that he died on the {pot. D.P.

On faturday last one Anne was committed to

Newgate, fhe would not confefs her other name, ona

violent suspicion of heving murder’d her own Child, by

cutting its head off; fhe being in a field near Endfield,

call’d to a fhepherd’s boy, and to'd him there was a

Child murder’d in the field; at which {the boy being

frighten’d, ran to Town, and got Assistance and took

her, with the body of the Child in her lap, without the

head, She would not make any Confession, either then

or before the Justice. She was brought te Newgate on

a horse, and behaves as a Lumatick. C. ‘

On faturday last Nathanael Gould Esq; received ano-

ther Letter ({upposed from the fame Villains who fent

the former) that if he did not {2nd ten Guineas (we

mentioned thirty Guineas by mistake) that evening, they

would have his blood, and concluded with the follow-

ing words, Usrum horum mavis, accipe. P,

This ferap of Latin looks as if they were some Renegade

Members of our Society.

William L.owfield, an Officer of the Poultry Comp-

‘ter, who lately kept a Hofier and Glover’s shop, next

door to Child’s Coffee-house in St. Paul’s Church- yard,

who was advertised in this Paper of the 3d instanr, and

ten Guineas Reward offer’d for apprehending him within

the time there limited, surrendered himself to the right

hom. the Lord Mayor last faturday, and was admitted to

Bil. D.?- we

Tunbridge Wells, Aug. This piace is as full as ever

was known, and more ladies than usual; here are the

dutchefs dowager of Marlborough, the dutcheffes of

Manchester and Newcastle, the caris of Sunderland and

Rothes, the Lady Diana Spencer, Lady Montjoy, Lady

Tvrawly, the Countels of Stamford and her daughters,

Sir Gregory Page and his Lady, Sir William Chapman

and his Lady, Mr. Southweil aad his Lady, William Co-

noly, Eig: and feverai other persons of -distinGion, Play

is as deep bere as ever was koown, Ibid.

Tuespvay, ug. iI.

Laft thurfday a Messenger was fent for the Court of

Spain, with a demand of the Ceduia for fending to the

Spanish West Indies the South-Sea Company’s ship Prince

William, which has lain for some time in the river,

waiting for the aforesaid Ceduia, which ‘tis no ways

doubted but will be dispatch’d from thence by the said

elicoger P. :

— oe 7th instant dy’d the Rev, Dr Booth, Dean of

Bristol, in advane’d age : The Deanery is reckon’d worth

goo |. perann D. P. :

The woman that was committed to Newgate on

sunday night sft, tor the murder of her bastard child,

by cutting off the head, being cilorder’d in her {enfes,

was yesterday remov'd from amongst the rest of the pri-

foners into one of the celis, on account of her violent

behaviour. D F.

Ely, Aug. 4. This day his Grace the Duke of Bedford,

Gov raor ot the corporation of Bedford-Level, attended

by a great many Gentemen of that body, came hither,

and the next day they held a Court of Sewers, when his

Grace gave a very handiome charge to the Jury, where-

in he express'd a particular zeal for the good of this

Country, and a just contempt of that factious {pisit

wh ch is still kept up to disturb the peace of that body,

and rencer his Grace’s administration uneasy; but nor-

withstanding ail endeavours of that kind, the bufineis

of that meeting was carry’d on with a perfect harmo-

ny, between his Grace and the Country, and a consider-

able {um of money was voted, and order’d to be rai.’d

on the common seal, for the immediate service of the

works ot draining, in {couring out the 2 emmmentdrain:,

the rivers Nean and Old Bedford, whereby the navigation

through the whole middle Level to fea wiil be effectually

restor’d, and that Level brought into a flourishing con

dition again, to the great joy of its proprietors, whole

estates there, for these five last years yielded them very

little profit trom the great neglects and abuses of former

administrations. E. P.

We hear from Oxford, that on thurfday last the Rev.

Dr. John Conybeare, Fellow of Exeter College, was

eleted Reétor of that house, in the room of the Rev.

Dr. Matthew Hole, deccas’d. L. E.

The Right Hon. the Earl of Wilmington, Lord Privy

Seal, and Knight of the Bath, in his journey through

Oxford into Worcestershire, visited several Colleges in the

University ; and as a particular mark of esteem for the

piace of his education, was pleas’d to make the Society

of Trinity College (of which his Lordship had been tor-

merly a Member) a very handsome present towards de-

fraying the expences of their new building ; and did the

University the honour to accept of the degree of Doctor

jn Civil Law. Ibid.

WEDNESDAY, Aug. 12. .

Laft night the indian chiefs, accompany'd with feve-

ral persons of distinétion, went to Sadler’s welis and faw

the diversions at that place. C.

Next week one of the Indian Princes, or Generals, is

aétualy to be marry’d to Miss Buich, a young Lady of

Fiench extraétion, who hath resided some years in this

Klugdom. D.P.

Yesterday died Mr. John Sturt, an eminent Engraver,

in a very advanced age. P.

Yesterday in the atternoon a fray happened in the Ar-

tillery ground by Morefields, as the green regiment of

the City Militia were exercising, between a gentleman

and one of the soldiers; in which the gentleman being

likely to have the better, some officers and others came

to his afliftance, over-power’d the gentleman, and took

him prisoner of war, carried him to the head of the re-

—. and after holding a council of war, discharged

im, Ibid.

From the P-gafus in Grub-street.

Some seditious persons have this week publish’d a

book intitled The State(man’s Miscellany. and advertise

it to be fold at the white bart mext Mr. Lynn’s the whip-

maker. I fear that Mr. Lyan the whip maker, is a

fiGtitious name, and to be understood allegoricaily,

FOREIGN NEWS.

Twursvay, Aug. 6.

Yesterday arriv’d the two Mails from Flanders.

Moscow, Fuly 13. The Czarina, our Empiefs, accom-

pany’d by the Princefles her tifters, and many other per-

fons of dutinétion of both sexes, is fet out this morning

for the convent of Tro:tz, tituate about 60 miles trom

this City, where fhe intends to pais some days in exer-

cifes of devotion; and some moments afier wards {he was

follow’d by several of her Ministers and Senators. Upon

the humbie representations that have been made to the

Empress, that deveral Merchants, as well foreiguers as

national, are not in a condition to pay the arrears they

owe for the duties of customs since the year 1696, to

the year 1724, her Imperial Majesty has been generously

pieas'd to discharge them from thole debts, conformably

to a decree fhe has publish’d for that purpose. D. P.

This day arrived one Mail from France.

Paris, Aug. 11. Thursday the King was present at

a cabinet council on the present affairs. The next

morning Cardinal Fleury conterr’'d with several of

the Miorfters Plenipotentiaries. This day arriv’d a Cou-

rier from the Spanish Court, with dispatches for the

Pienipotentiaries of his Catholick Majesty. ’Tis said that

his Majesty has in these diipatches reiterated his instances

tor the fending away the promis’d fuccours for aflifting

in the expedition to Italy. We expeét daily a Courier

trom the Court of Vienna, with the result in answer to

the last dispatches fent thither, when ’rwild be known

whether the iaid iuccours are to go or aot. Letters

trom Barceiona import, that a vast qu ntity of frores of

war are brought thither from several parts of Spain, to be

imbark’don the aforesaid expedition. Letters trom Caf-

faila fay, that their Catholick Majesties were fet out from

that piace for the coast to divert themselves dusing the

fumnrer season ; and that the flora trom the Havanna

was within some leagues of Cadiz the 31ft of July, fo

that they might be expected every day to arrive, their

cargoe in the whole being valued at 2,c00,0col. fter-

ing. S.F.B.

Fripay, Aug 8.

Paris, Aug.tz. N. S. M. Michael Poncet de la Ri-

viere, Bishop of Angers, Abbot of the Abbey of Vier

fon in the Diocese of Bourges Noaile in the Diocese of

Poitiers, and St, Florent les Saumur in the Diocese of

Aagers, and t of the 4o Members of the Frencli Aca.

demy, dicd in his Diocese the 2d instant, aged about $8

years, C.

They write from Clermont in Auvergne, that M. de

la Chapelle, Clerk to the Receiver General of the finances

of that Generality, had been murder’d there by M. de

’Efpinoffe. who had made his escape. did.

Leghorn, Fuly +9 N.S. We are here in the utmof

confusion, on account of the repeated advices of the

armament of Spain, and the increase of the Imperial

troops in our neighbourhood, which puts a stop to all

commerce and makes shipping hurry away from hence.

Weare affur’d that the Emperor and the Allies of Se-

ville remain obstinate, and there is no profpeét of an ac-

commodation. The Genoefe begin to be uneasy, and are

fending 3000 men to Porto Spezia, yet the Court of

Florence seem to be afleep, not shewing the least con-

cern. Some advices fay, that the K. of Sardinia is most

inclin’d to Spain, and has refus’d the Imperialifts a paf-

{age thro’ his Country. The new Pops continues great-

ly in esteem, but ws have no confirm<tion of the crea-

tion of new Cardinals. From Naples and Sicily we

learn, that they have plentiful harvefts. D. 7.

SaTURDAY;, Aug: 8.

Yesterday arrived the Mail from Holland

Barcelona, Fuly 26. We wait on'y the orders of the

Court to begin the embarkation of the troops, every

thing -being ready for that parpose ; as transports, pro-

visions ammunition, tents, utensils, ag 2 pontoons,

and in short, every thing necessary for such an under-

taking. All the battalions that are to go on board, are

to consist of 750 men each, complete.

likewise complete, and very fine. “Tis computed, that

with the ships expected from Cadiz, Malaga, and other

ports, our fleet will make 500 fail, without any fuccours;

and thet the fame may put to fea wpon the 2>th of

next month. C. and D. P.

Paris, dug. 7. N.S. On the 3: ft past an express was |

fent to Vienna, with the K.of Spain’s answer to that

of the Emperor about the Ultimatum of the Allies of

Seville. His Catholick Majesty absolutely refuses to a-

bate a jot of the introduétion of Spanish garrisons in-

to the places of Tuscany, and perfifts in the resolution

to go upon the expedition this year, whether the fuc-

cours arrive or not. Mean while the foreign Ministers

The horse are.

continue their conferences with ours at Compiegne ; and

We are told, that as ivon as ihe express above mention’d

is return’d trom Vienna, we thai! en. away the fuccours

to Spain, if the Emperor periiits in his retutal.

ever, the Spanish troops ate ordei’d to be ready to ge on

Howe

board by the 1ochor August. did.

Mowpvay, dug. 1°.

Hague, Aug.t. NS The Eari of Chi fterfield is

impatiently expected here; and the more, becauic we

now look upon a war to be unavoidab'e. P.

It is written from Vienna, July 29. that after the Em-

peror had dispatch’d his last answer to the \ ourt of

France, his Imperial Majesty had no other cou fe to

pursue, than that of his miutary Preparations. Accord-

ingly, ina Breat Council holden there the 27th, it was

resolved to fend 14,000 more men to Italy, where will

be the feat of the War; but as there are feverai Reasons

why Hungary should not be drained too much. it is

thought the Kings of Poland and Prussia, with whom

his Imperial Majesty has particular engagements, will

turnish the number of Troops abovemention’d, did.

Extract of @ private Letter from Compiegne, dated

Aug. 5. N. S.

T HE Answer given to Count Koningfek, was what

the Imperial Court will call ary ( feche) it imported,

€ That it was a sensible mortific.tion to see that all the

* pains that bad been taken to avoid a War, had proved

* meffetual; and that the Emperor perfifts in his refoli -

‘ tion to shed Christian Blood upon fo flight an occasior :

* Burt that since they are forced to it, his Imperial Ma-

* jesty will soon be convinced, that France and her Al-

‘ lies permitted the late delays purely tor the fake of

* Peace, and not out of any ciftruft ot success in the ju-

* ftice of their cause.” This Answer was made with the

greater firmness, because the Cabinet Courier Bannieres,

who lately arrived from Spain, brought the aft Refolu-

tion of her Catholick Majesty, iatimating, * That the will

© not lofe a moment’s time more, nor be the Dupe of

* the Court of Vienna: That every thing isready; and

* that if the is sbandon’d by her Allies, the wil try if

© the is not flrong enough to aét without them, gc.’

In effect, Orders are fent to Marseilles and Touon, to

get every thing ready for embarking at an hou,’s warn-

ing. Nevertheless, Count Coningfek fays nothing of his

departure; which strengthens the notion, that he has fe-

cret Orders to clip up an Accommeda'ion as soon as he

fees things im extremis, and that France is in earnest,

The Cardinal Minister’s Warlike refolurion has greatly

retrieved his credit with the Princes of the Blood and the

principal Lords of the old Court, who began not to like

his Proceedings. Ibid.

TuESDAY, Ang. It.

Paris, Aug. 16.N.S. There are 4 or § competitors

for the place vacant io the French academy by the death

of the Bishop of Angers; and among them are the bith p

of Lufon, Montieur Sylva, physician to the Due of

Bourbon, the trauflstor ot Milton’s Paradise Lof, and

Mr. Ramsay, the Author of the Travels of « yrus

The Dutchess of Brunswick dy’d suddenly the 12th in-

stant, at her country feat at Annieres, aged full 78

years. P.

WEDNESDAY, Aug. 12.

Extract of a private . etter from Vienna, dated Aug.2.N.S.

118 Court has received advice, that the enterprize

. Of the Spaniards will terminate this year in landing

their forces in the island of Corsica, to be at hand to

fall upon Tuscany early in the {pring, or else to attack

Sicily, we do not know whether. His imperial Majesty

has {ent orders for enquiring isto this account; and if

it proves true, endeavours will be used to persuade thes

Republick of Genoa to furnish transports to carry a body

of Imperislifts over to to that island, to oppose a def=

cent of the Spaniards, who without doubt, would fae

vour the rebels. P.

The Course of the Exch-nge.

Amsterdam 34 7 a 6 Madrid 4: 1 8th

Ditto at Sight 34 4 3 | Bilboa 41 3 4ths

Rotterdam 34 8 a 7 Leghorn 0 7 8ths a51

Antwerp 35 1 Genoa 547 Eths

Hamburgh 33 3 Venice 481 «th

Parisat fight 32 1 &th Lisbon 5s.6d. at 8th

Bourdeaux at fight 32 Porto ss. 4d. 1 half

Cadiz 42 1 8.h Dublin 10 3 8ths

On Tuesday Stocks were

South-Seato2 3 4ths. SouthSea Annuity 107 7 Sths;

a 18th. Bank 142 3 qths. India 1584, 183 3 qths,

Three per Cent. Annuity 96 3 8ths. Milion Bank 108,

African 44- York Buildings 19 3 8ths. Royal Affu-

rance (1001. paid in) gt. London ditto (12). paid in)

121 8th, Bank Circuation 8).1¢a178 6d South

Sea Bonds § |. 16s. Indiaditto 51. 135, English Cop-

per 3l.10s, Welth ditto rl. ros,

Prices of Goods at Bear Kcy on Monday...

per Quarter per Quarter

Wheat —21 to 28 Hog Peas —— 1§ to 18

Rye ——— 10 to 12 6} Boiling Peas—2z1 to 24

Barley ———-1' to 14 Pale Malt — 12 to 20

Oats —— 9 to 13 6] BrownMalt— 13 to 19 6

Horse Beans 16 to 24 Tares ———~18 to 25

Coals 215, to 238. per Chaidron.

Hops 1728 — 18s. to 26s. per Hundred,

Hops 1729 — 308. to 4§s. per Hundred.

Rape Seed iz}. to 121. ios. per Lait,

ADVERTISEMENTS.

To be Lett.

Farm called Addington Lodge, lying near Croydon

in Surrey; confitting of a good Farm-house, Barnes

Stables, Graimarys, and all Conveniencesin good Repair,

With abou: one thousand Acres of Arrable and Paiture

Land Inc.ofe!, lying Contiguous. Inquice of Mr. Eyres

at Cliffords lin London, or ot Mr. Hoare at Sir John

Leigh's at Aduington,

Now in the Press,

And speed:ily will be published.

T HE Titteot MOHA MED. Translated from the

Irnciot the Coypt of Bonlainvillers, Author of

Tie orelent State of France, and the hiitorical Memoirs

t ereto fupjoin d,

; This Day ig published,

By Mr. Cowell of Hoxton (wherein a Description of

the beau itul Torch-Thiftles now in the Blossom ; and

also of lis great American Aloe)

PTH E curious anu profitable GARDENER; con-

taining,

I, The most useful Experiments for improving Land

by Giaia and Seeds, Eleven curious Directions for

cultividing the choiceft Fruits of the Ealt and Weft In-

dics, ai a imall Expence,

lif, Extrao dinary Kemarks concerning the raising of

Flowers from Sed,

IV. Particular Observations and Rules for the Manage-

ment of Dwart kruit-Trees, Wall-Trees, Efpaliers and

Standards; with a new method of rendsing them more

Ornamental and profitable than 1s commonly practised.

Printd for Weaver Bickerton in Devereux-Court, near

the Middle-Temple,

Of whom may be had,

1. A mechanical Essay upon the HEART, in three

Anatomical Leftures. Wherein the Heart is demon-

{trated to a compleat Epitome of Myology in general,

from a New and particular Uluftration of its compounded

Mauteles.

I], The Origine and Nature of the BLOOD, withan

exit Description of its Circulation, deduced from the

Force and Elafticity of a Fibre, from the Situation and

Confiruction of che Veins and Arte-ics, and from the fta-

ted Principal of Mechanicks.

Il], The Preetcrnatural State of that Fluid, and how

to restore it, when possible, to its natural Crafis again,

as Deliver’s in the Amphitheatre of the Royal College

ot Physicians, London. By William Wood, M.D. Fellow

of the said Colleze.

IV. Persian Anecdotes, or secret Memoirs of the Court

of Persia, Written originally in French, tor the Enter-

tainment of the King. By Madam de Gomez, Author

ot Le Belle Assemblee-

; This Day is Publish'd.

Which is one of the Reasons the publick Commencement at Dublin was

mt off.

T HE CENSORIAD. A feom. Written originally by Mar-

_ tin Galiver, Uluftrated with sundry -cufious Annotations

of divers learned Commentats, Scholiafts and Criticks.

—Felicia Tempora qua te

Moribms opponunt. Juv.

—Thou Vermin wretched

As e’er in meafl'd Pork was hacch'd,

Thou Tail of Worhhip that doeft grow

On Rump of Justice as on Cow.

Printed for the Booksellers of London.

Of whom also may be had,

I. A View of the present State of Affairs in the Kingdom of

Ireland, Containing, A Lift of Absenters of that Kingdom, and

Answer. Also a Modest Proposal for preventing the Children of

poor People from being a Burrhtn to their Parents or the Country,

and for making chem beneficial to the Publ ck. By Dr. S--t.

{I. The Batchelor’s Estimate ot the Expencesot a married

LI. "Che Married Man’s Answer co the Batchelor’s Estimate.

IV. The Batchelor’s Reply co the Married Man, or none but

Foo!s marry :

V. New RefleSions on the Female Sex. Written by the

Narchioness de Lambe’ and tranflared by Mr. Lockman

- ee eee ——— < e

This Day is published,

N Ode. Inferibed to hi

s Grace the Duke of Buck-

ingham, on his embarking for France. By John

Lockman.

O quz

fontibus integris

Gaudes, apricos ne€te flores,

Neéte meo Lamix coronam.

Pimplea dulcis.

Horat.

Printed for Lawton Gilliver, at Homer's Head, a-

gainst St. Dunstan’s Church in Fleet-street ; price 4d.

Where may be |

iad, just published,

Blasphemy as old as the Creation, or the Newgate

Divine. A Satire. Address’d to the modern Advocates of

Irreligion, Prophaneness and Infidelity. By a Gendeman

and a Christian.

Quod fi in hoc erro, quod

animos hominum immortales

effe credam, oy erro: Nec mihi hunc errorem,

quo delettor,

immortales, -

rum Socius W. Tindall.

AL

um vivo, extorqueri volo, animas effe

qaicquid dixit, Omnium Anima-

Tully.

S

O

A new Edition of the Dunciad, with some additional

Notes and Epigrams.

A new Edition of the Art

Frontispiece

of Politicks, with a curious

Rifum teneatis Amici ?

Two Epistles to Mr. Pope, concerning the Authors of

the Age. By the Author of the Universal Passions,

The Merchant. A Naval Lyrick. By the fame Author,

An Epittle to tle Earl of Chesterfield on the present Si-

tuation of Affairs.

BOOKS printed and fold

by John Brotherton at the

Bible next the three Tun Tavern in Cornhill.

Ddifon’s Works, 4 Vol.

in 4to.

‘say's Fables.

Mande vill’s Free Thoughts

— Ditto Fable of the Bees,

2 Vol.

DittoVirgin nnmask’d,

Ditto Hypochondriack

Boyer’s Telemachus, 2 Vol,

Pilgrim’s Progress.

Musical Di&tionary.

Buckinzham’s Works, 2 Vol.

Boyer’s Di€tionary abride’d.

Pope’s Homer's Iliad, 6 Vol

——Ditto Odyfy’s, 5 Vol.

King’s H. Gods,

Blair's Sermons, § Vol: 8vo.

Gordon’s Geog. Grammar,

Plutarch’s Lives, 8 Vol. 8vo.

Milton’s Parad :fe loft.

Ditto regain’d.

Clarendon’s History, 6 Vol.

Guardians, 2 Vol.

Cooke’s Deteftion, 3 Vol.

Poileau Oeuvre Poetique.

Colleétion of Novels.

Shakespear’s Plays.

Ovid’s Eviftles.

Ditto Artof Love.

Abelard’s Letters.

HE {ollowing Plays are to be fold for 6d. apieces at Mr. John

Osborn’s at Dock-head, near Horflydown, and at F, Cogan’s

at the Middie Temple-gate.

Plays in Quarto.

Scornful Lady

Wit without Money

Spanish Curate

Valentinian. Chances

Custom of the Country

Wiie for a Month

Wit at several Weapons

Coxcomb. Bonduca

Bloody Brothers

Maid’s Tragedy

Woman: Hater

Humorous Lieutenant

Love lies a Bleeding

Double Marriage

Island Princess

Loyal Subjec&

Love’s Cure

Prophetefs. Pilgrim

Rule a Wife, and have 2 Wile

Beggar’s Bush

Maid in the Mil

All these by Beaumont and

Fleccher

Artful Husband

Jane Gray

Governor of Cyprus

Perfidious Brother

Liberty asserted

Scowerers. Virtuoso

Duke of Guife

Maflacre ot Paris

L.be’s Paradise

French Purican

Perplex'd Lovers

Love in a Wood

Junius Brutus

Epsom Wells

Injur’d Love

Philosophy no Delence against

Love

Persian Princes

Cheats. Ulyfles

Amorous Bigot

Perolla and Ifadora

Arlinoe, Queen ot Cyprus

False Friend

Woman’s Wit

Plays in O&avo

Imprrial Captives

Kentingron Gardens

Czfar in Aigypt

Henry IV. of France

Spartan Dame

English Chevalier

Whig and Tory

Invader of his Country

Artful Wife

Antiochus

Love and Liberty

Rival Generals

Roman Aaors

Faults on both Sides

Love in a Forest

Lottery. Sultaness

Henry VI. Edwin

Fall of Saguntum

Female Fop

Female Parson

Henry V. Revenge

Hibernia Freed

Fata] Legacy

Capricious Lovers

Lady’s Philosophy

Plays in Twelves

Sir Walter Raleigh

Perplix’d Couple

Country Wite

Don Sebastian

London Cuckolds

Love in a Sack

Apparition F

Bold Stroke for a Wife

Heroick Daughter

Noah’s Flood

Baffler Table

Injured Virtue

Scipio Africanus

Petticoat Plotter

Slip. Clouds

Britannicus and Alexander

World’s Idol

Litigants. Vi&im

PerGan Princefs

Richmond Heirefs

Tottenham Court

Halt. Pay Ofhcers

Cuckolds make themselves

Athaliah

Wite to be Lert

She Gallanrs

Perfidious Brother

Lady’s Triumph

Woman's a Riddle

Briton

Duke of Gloucester

Where may be had gteat Variety of Noveis at the fame Price.

This Day is published, in a neat pocket Volume, Price 2 ¢,

6 de the second Edition with Additions of ,

H E Inceclligencer. By the celebrated Author of the

Tale of a Tub.

Omne vafer vitium ridenti Flaccus amico_

Tangit, & Admiffus curcum precordia ludit, Perf.

Containing, Theinhofp.table Temper of “Squire Wether.---

A Vindication of Mr. Gay, and the Beggar’s Opera. ----

The Folly of Gaming. A Description of what the

World calls Diicretion. A Kepretentation of the

present Condition o. Ireland. +——— The s of

Corufodes and Eugenis ———— A Dialogve between Mul-

iniz ani Timothy. — The foolish Methods of Educati-

oa among the Nobility. Tim, and Gay’s Fables,

-~-- Proposals in Prose ani Verie tor an unversal View

of the eminent Writes ot the holy Scriptures. Sic

Ralph the Patriot turn Courtierx——The Art of Story-

telling. Prom ethus’s Artof Man-making, and the

Tale of a Td, —- The Services the Draper hag

done his Country, and the Steps taken to ruin it-———~

The Acventures of the three Brothers, George, Vatrick

and Andrew. The Marks ot Lieland’s Poverty,

shewn to be evident Proofs of its Riches. St. An-

drew’s Day, and the Drap-1’s Birth-day.——T he Hard-

ships of the Irith being deprived. of their Silver, and de.

coy'd into America Dean Smedley gone to feek

his Forcune.—T he Pheasant and rhe Lark: A Fable.

Prinied for, and told by Francis Cogan, at the Middle-

temple-gate in Flect-street.

Where may be had,

The Life of the Right Reverend Dr. White Kennetr,

late Bishop of Peterborough; with several original Let-

ters of the late Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr. Tennison 5

the late Earl of Sunderland ; Bishop Kennet, &c. and fone

curious original Papers and Records, never before pub-

lished. And also

The Foreigner’s Guide : Or, a necessary and instructive

Companion, both for the Foreigner and Native, in their

Tour through the Cities of London and Westminster,

Givin

IA general Description of these two Cities, with an

Account of their respective Government,

adly. A Description of the Royal Palaces, Noblemens

Houses, publick Buildings, Churches, Streets, Squares,

and the most remarkable Places in and near the famous

Metropolis : With an Account of the Inns of Court, Royal

Society, publick Walks, Diversions, remarkable Days,

Court Days, Post Days. And,

3dly. A Description of the several Villages in the Neigh-

bourhood ; as Chelsea, Kensington, Richmond, Green,

wich, Woolwich, Hampstead; and also others more re-

mote, viz. Hampton-court, Windsor, Oxford, Cambridge,

Blenheim, once Horse-races, Epsom, Tunbridge,

Bath. An >

athly. An Account of the Rates of Coaches, Watermen ;

and also the Rates of Post-horses; with the Roads to

Dover and Harwich.

Very useful and entertaining both to Foreigner and Na-

tive, and done into English atd French.

EL a.

LOVE LETTE Re on all Occasions, lately paf-

fed between Persons of Diftin&tion. Colleéted by Mrs.

Eliza Haywood. 4

Pleasure with Sorrow, Peace with War allay’d,

Liberty fetter’d, Hope by Fear difmay’d ;

Imbitter’d Honey, Earnest mix’d with Play,

Art, Love! the Emblem of thy fov’reign Sway.

The Carlefiial Anodyne Tinéture: Or, The Great Pain-

Eafing Medicine,

| and approv’d of for its won-

& derful and never-failing Success,

in giving immediate Ease and Relief

in all manner of Pains, either inward

Or outward, and is the most certain Re-

medy in the World for a fure and

{pe y Cure of the Cholick, and

expelling Wind,» Gripes and Pains

in the Stomach, the Pleurify, ftitcches or pains in the

fide, back, loins, Of any other part; Rheumat'ck Ail-

ments, which cause pain and dolor. It hath giyen

ease to a_ Miracle, when all other Remedies have fail’d;

In the Gravel and Stone in the Kidneys, it gives ease

forthwith, and biings them away to Admiration. It also

facilitates and causes a speedy Delivery in Child-birth.

’Tis no Den trifling thing to allure the World with, but

a real and well-experienced Medicine, not aéting by Stu-

pifaflion (as Opiates) but by a friendly, balsamick, and

fubtile Nature, pacifying the most severe and terrible rack-

ing, pains, and carries off the cause, not by purging, but

by Transpiration, by Urine, or breaking Wind. No Fa-

mily ought to be without it; and used outwardly it cures

Swellings, Aches, Pains, Numbness or Weakness of the

Joints; “tis exceHent for Cramps, and all-other aged In-

may effecting Wonders in Agues, Fevers, Small-

ox, &c.

It is fold only by Mr. PARKER, Printer, at his

House in Salisbury-Court, or by such persons as he shall

depute, * re A pe . Bottle, with printet! Directi.

ons ; and, if requested, will be brought to an rfon, b

the Hawker who fells his Penny Pott, ae

Note, *Tis seal’d as above, to prevent Counterfeits,

~ LONDON: Printed by Mr. Moors, for Captain Guttiver, near the Temple, where L

[Price Two Pence.]

etters and Advertisements are taken in.

