Numb. 31.

The Grub-street Journal.

Thursday, AUGUST 6, 1730.

Sumite materiam vefiris, qvi (cribiti‘, equam

Viribus.

Hor.

WE have carefully avoided, and we shall

continue to avoid, all dudjects which do

not apperrain to our Province. Among

these we reckon all peltical and party

Writings, we have not enimadyerted

on the Produétions of foe Authors,

tho’ they transgress pretty often their

own Bounds and ramble into our Diilriet 5 because these

Authors having not had, as yet, the bappineds to be ac-

knowledged Members of our Society, we co not fup-

fe that our cenforial Power extends over them.

Nay, we have been fo nicely scrupulous upgn this

Head, that we Inve not hitherto meddled even with the

Members of our own Body, who have presumed to

enter into the political Disputes of the Times, but ob-

fervirg their Numbers to encrease daily, and fearing that

they may give Advantage to our Adversaries, if they

are lefe any longer without Controul, we have resolved,

on mature Deliberstion, to pursue these Rovers in their

Wanderings, and to watch over them with fraternal Care

and Solicitude.

Genuine Sons of Grub-street can never be concealed

under any Disguise, fo that the honour and interest of

Grub-street mutt be aiways deeply concerned in their

Behaviour. We shall therefore animedvert very seriously

upon any mistakes in their polemical Conduct, and prin-

cipally in that main part of it, rhe Altercarive, deeming

our selves to have a double Right, arising trom the mat-

ter, 3s well as from the Persons, ‘0 criticize whatever we

find in the Works of our Breth-en that is properly cag

nizable in the Courts of Grud-street.

A very eminent Member of the Society, who has ap-

peared lately in the Daily Cowrane shall be the first object

of our Care.

He kas, it must be confefs’d, in a fupream degree, all

the Talents necessary to excel in controversial Writings ;

and we make no deubt but he will do equal honour to

the Society, and service to the cause he is trompted by

zeal, and inflamed by opposition to maintain. His late

Produétions do however suggest some Cautions, which

we think it neceflury to give him.

We cannot agree with those who thik his Jlterca-

tion misplaced or miftimed. If he writ for the Publick,

the objection might lye, because he could not reasonably

hope to gain the Publick over to h's fide, by assuming a

dogmatical Air, by calling those Authors names, who fecm

to have the Publick on their tide at present.

But our Brother cannot be suspected of any such de-

fipn, after the heroical Contempt of the Vulgar, which

he has manifested; and therefore we must acquit him of

this Charge.

The objection we make to his Altercation is this, we

think it too unzuarded. Rogue, Raskal, Railer, Slan-

derer, Libeller, Lyar, Incendiary, are terms, most or all

of which our Brother has employ’d already, and may, in

our opinion, very safely and very inofienfively emp'oy

again, whenever he has much anger in his Heart, and

little matter in his Head. They are grown into such

common ufe, that they neither affect the Persons, at

whom they are directed, nor bead to any particular

Refle&tion on the Person, who enkvens his Writings

with them.

But the profound Learning and the acute Wit of our

Brother, cartied him beyond his English Common Place.

He thought fit to point his Climax with Latin, and to

call his Antagonist Scurra in Triviis. This we tax as

impudent, and, to fay the Truth, our Brethren seldom

succeed when they dabble in Latin. Might not the

Craftsman’s Correspondent have retorted on this occasion

the Scurra in Auld? Might he not have shewn the lat-

ter to be the lower Character of the two, since the Sewr-

rain Aula is always the obsequious follower of some

Scurra in Triviis or other? Might he not have illustrated

this by Example? Might he not have fix'd it by Ap-

plication? We hope our Brozher will be more on his

guard, afte: this friendly Admonition. —

Another Caution, which we think proper to give him

is, that he should not fufier himéelf to be drawn in fo

fa as to desceni much into Jartieulars when he is ac-

cufed of wrong Quotations, or Milrepresentations. Theie

are the heft defenfiye Weapons, as Al:crcation is t € belt

off-njue Weapon, with which we can arm our feives, But

when they fail as, and they are not of long defence

against some Adversaries, our belt recourse is to the

great rt of Evasion.

In these Cates, the method pursued by the most re-

nowned Authors of our Society has ever been to take

Advantage ia their Regiy of the Information they received

from the Answer; to aficét to have known as much be-

fore; for this purpose to mifquote even themf{elves; to

confefs and avoid; to dwell in Generals; and when the

matter is sufficiently perplexed, to get off as fait as pof-

fibly from the flippery Ground. All this our Brosker exe-

cuted in a masterly manner, when he found himéself

pushed for misrepresenting the ufe his Antagonist had

made of a Passagein Marchiavel; and we were therefore

the more surprited to fee him fall into the contrary Er-

ror in the very next Paragraphs.

That the Defirudion of Rome by the Gauls was ow-

ing to the Javafion of Rome by the Gauls, teems plain.

That Livy attributes, (and Plutarch dacs not contradi¢tt

him) this Invasion to the Condu& of the Roman Am-

baffadors, and to the {creening of them from Justice, we

find likewise, upon enquiry, to be true.

We with therefore that our Brother had thought fit

to have recourse on this, as on the former occasion. to

the great art of Evasion; instead of going about to prove

by Inferences and Deductions, that is by Reason, a matter

of Fad, or acco:ding to his nice and fubti! diltinéion,

an Aff.rtion of a Matter of Fad, in dire& Contradi¢tion

to the express Authority of Hftory.

If Camillus had not ben opposed, Says our Brother, the

Fadion who explld bim had not come into Power; tha:

Fadtion fent the Ambafadcrs; that Faction proswcébed them ;

that Faétion loft the Battle of Alia, which was the ifs 0

Rome. Now if Camillus bad continued in Power, some

or other of these things had not happened.

Nothing furcly can be more ingenious than these In-

ferences and Deductions; we were struck with them

But to shew our Brother how much danger there is in

being too particular on thele occasions, and 10 quitting

the great Rule of Evasion; one of his or our Adversaries

happening to be present, the man {mi'ed contemptuously

upoa us. Some of our Members, offended at his Ar-

rogance, and depending on the known Erudition of our

Brother, attacked him in the Altercarive ftyle with great

vivacity. ‘The Maa, without being moved, answered

them in these Words. ‘ The Party who oppofd and

© banished Camillus, was the Plebeian Party. The Party

‘ of the Senate, or of the Optimares, was the Party of

“ Camillus. lt was the Party ot the Fadié likewise. The

‘ Senate, not the Party, who expeled Camillus, {ent

‘ these Ambassadors to the Gauls. ‘The Senate, who

* thought the Ambassadors deserved punishment, would

© not divert the storm by punishing the Members of their

‘ own Party. ‘ The Senate referred the matter to the

‘ People, that the whole Plame of any Misfortune might

* pot ibe laid to them, The People followed ti ¢ Example

« and yielded to the Influence of the Senate. Favour

‘and Riches, the Arms of the Senate, prevailed; the

‘ Fabii were not only acquitted, but chofin mm itary

© Tribunes, and put at the bead of the Army. If Cae

¢ millus therefore had not been banished, it ig very

probable the fame Ambassadors had been fent first

and fereened afterwards; and if Cagzillus had given

way to it, or promoted it, this would not have been

the firit Error he had been guilty of in Party affairs,

even according to Pintarch. it you suppose that Ca-

millus wou'd have endeavoured to prevent the {creen-

ing and preferring thele Ambassadors, when their cause

came before the People, it wali ft¥l be probab'e, that

the Senate would have prevailed among the People

against the Man of their Body the most hated by the

People. Make your Reflections on thele faéts, and

teach your superticial Brother, if you cam, to read, be-

fore you suffer him to write any more.’ When the

faucy Feliow had said this, he turned his Back and

left us.

This Accident has provoked the just Indignation of the

whole Society, and our Adversaries may expe that the

whole Poweré @f Grub-street wil exert themselves st a

w~

“en AAA fF HR HF HR w&

proper time, and in a preper manner. In the mean

wh le, grest uf may be made of it to our common Ad-

vantage. It shews the dangers which our Members ex-

mn {2 themselves to, when they depart from the good old

+ Rules and Pratice of the Society; whey they expatiate

on th: particulars in o'd heathen Authors; and above all,

when they meddle with deducing, inferring, or any kiad

of Reafoxing, ' .

One of our Members having lately been in Kent, met

with the following Inscription, which’ being of ehera?

ufe to all who travel that way, we desire our iea-ned

Brethren the Society of Antiquarians to explain.

., oa

O T

I

I

P N

H Ss $

DE

LONDON.

THurspvay, Fauly 30.

Deal, Fuly 28, Abouc 11 this morning a thip tun a-

ground on th: off-part of the Goddwia Sunds, our boats

are gone aad going to her ailiftance; the thip {its almost

uprighr, and ‘ti: supposed the men have left her, and

think we fhal not save an account of her until night. It

harh blown hard this morning at S.W. C. PB. & DF.

_ Yutterday was held a Court of Directors of the Lon.

Batt India Company, at cher house in Leadenbail-street,

Wacercia they came to several resolutions in relation to the

affairs of their supercargoes, and have agreed to call a

gene:al Cour, which is satended to be held on wednef-

d.) mext, P.

Yesterday at a Commi:tee of the Governors of §t.

B rtholomew's Hopital, Mr. Andrews, who had been

several years one of the a'moners of that house, desired

to resign the said Office 5 upon which he receiv’d the

thanks of the Gentlement preieat for the good service he

had done the house; and at the same time they eletted

Mr. Wm Byrch almoner for the men, in the room of

Mr. Andrews, and Robert Fotherby, E/g; a’moner for

the women in the room of Mr. Byrch. sid.

The Rev. Mr. Hesring was lately preftated to the

Rectory of Edgfeild, in the County of Norfolk and Dio-

cefe of Norwich. Ibid. .

Laft monday died Thomas Stephens, Esq; at his coun-

try lodgings at Hampton town in the County of Middic«

fex, whither he went tor the recovery of his health.

About 2 years since he married Mrs. Barbara Thorold,

niece of Sir George Thorold, Bar. with whom he had

a fortune of 12,000]. His whole estate, which is ver

contiderable, devolves to his only fon, whom he had by

his said wife, who is now 9g monthsold. did.

Late on friday night last 2 Gentlemen belonging ta the

Lord .Cobham’s regiment of hose, went to a_publick

house at New'and, near Northampton, where the land-

lord at first refused them entrance, but getting in after

some cifficulty, and a quarrel arising betwixt them and

the landlord, one of them drew the other’s sword, and

stabb’d the landlord in the breast, of which he soon died.

The person thar did the fact is flec, and the other came

mitted ta gaol. D.F.

The names of the five young Highwaymen now con-«

fined in Reading gaol, are Robert Reason, James Bryan

William Morris, torny Figg, and William Warrington,

an Upholiter's Apprentice in Bow street, Covent-gardem

They are to be removed by a Habeas Corpus to News

gare, in order to te try’d at the ensuing Sessions at the

Old Baily, which begins the 28th of next month. Ro-

bert Reason is to be admitted an Evidence aaainftt the

rest of his Companions, he having conf-tled several rob-

beries committed in the streets of London and Wel

minster. P.

We hear the last express from the Court o i

brought nothing to sianan the dispatch of — Seek

Sea Company’s ship Prince William, for Porto Be!

which a in Long-reach: |

very compiailant, and promise fair, but ’tis tear?

belt they will delay her departure fo long as pith ater

her arriving in New Spain before the galleons have fold

their cargoes, and consequently very much injure the

Company in the sale of their goods; so that there is at

10,

[Page 2.]

The Spaniards are

present but little prospect ef the reaping’ the benefit,

which from the peace might have been expeéted, as a

reward for their long fuffesings by the Spaniards. E. P.

By Oar letters from Gidsaitar, dated the 1th of last

month, we are inform’d tht the people there think it a

cat misfortune that they have no communication by

ind or fea with Spain; the Spaniards keeping them

-biock’d up, within; quarters of a mie of their works,

in the same place where they were a year ago; and fo

strict is the general who commands their line, that he

will not suffer a man to go in or out; and how long this

will last they cannot teil; they on'y with tor leave to re-

move them; they would then {von enlarge their terri-

tories. Ibid. and W. E. ’

Mr. Odell, Master of Goodman's. fields p!ay-house, hath

took a leaie for 14 years of a piece of ground near Tot-

tenham-court turnpike; upon which he has begun to

build a play-house 70 toot in length. S. F. Ee

Fripay, Fuly 31.

_ On wednesday night the Right Hon. the Lord Chan-

Cellor came to town, and yesterday fate upon causes

by consent, at his Lordship'’s hovte in Liacoln’s-inn-

fields. D.P.

When the Greyhound man of war, Sir Yelverton Pey-

ton commander, lett the Havanna, as mentioned in our

former, the flota (consisting of 3 men of war, and 9

merchaatefhips) were ali arrived there: They had on

board above 16 millions of pieces of eight 1m coined

silver reyiftered, and as much more of different forts

of goods, &c. as in the whole amounted to about 24

million of picces of eight. The 7th of June, N.S. had

' been fixed for their departure, but ’twas believed it wou!d

_ be the 15th before they departed for Cadiz, The Grey-

hound was :2 days in her passage trom the Havanna to

Virginia. D.F.

Mr. Hul!, Apothecary in the Strand, is appointed to ©

serve the Apothecary and Surgeon of Greenwich hospi-

tal, with medicines, (not to be Apothecery of that hof-

pital himself, as has been isid) in the room of ‘'r. Bar-

low of Buckilersbury, who served the said hospizal many

years. Ibid.

Yesterday the Governors of St. Bartholomew’s hospi-

tal had a splendid entertainment at Haberdashers-hall in

Maiden-lane. P.

And at the same time the workmen employed in lay-

ing the foundation of the new building there, {pent the

money given them by the Right Hon. the Lord Mayor

and several of the Governors, at the laying of the first

stone. Ibid.

Yesterday {everal regiments of the train-bands being on

their march through Jockey-fields, were furpiized by

a {mall party of foot detached from the Sheriff of Mid-

dlesex, when the whole army was put to the rout, and

a certain officer taken prisoner; fo that we are informed

siege will not be laid to Black Mary’s Hole this Cam.

pagn. Ibid.

They write from Maidstone July 24, that the assizes

for the County of Kent ended there that evening, at

which three maletaétors were convicted capitzliy, and re-

ceived sentence ot death, viz. James Maidman and Ro-

bert Adams for burglary, and Thomas Goodman for a

robbery on the tphway. Three persons were ordered

for transpotrarion; and John Rawlins, commonly called

Lord Tunbridge, a dwart about 3 foot high, was indid-

ed for assaulting a girlot 8 years of age, with an iatent

to ravish her, but was acquitted. C.

SATURDAY, Aug. I.

Yesterday there was a Court of Common-Council at

Guildhall, when the Orphans bill was read a third time

and pass’d. Afterwards the report of the Committee ap-

pointed to consider of the common Cryer’s pstition for

an addition to his salary, was read; wherein the Com-

mittee were of opinion, that four freedoms might be

added to his present income; and after some debate there-

upon, a motion was made and the question put, Whe-

t the said report should be recommitted : I: passed

Sn the affirmative by the Common-Council; but a Ma-

jority of the Aldermen put a negative upon it. Then

the question was pur, Whether the Court do agree to

the report of the Committee ? It was carried in the af-

farmative by the Common Council; but the Aldermen

put a negative upon it, as before. Afterwards a Com-

mittee ot fix Aldermen and twelve Common-Council

men were appointed to enquire into the gratuities, per-

quifites and salaries granted by the Common-Council, or

by the Court of Aldermen, within ten years last past;

and aifo into the gratuities and fums of money granted

by the Committee of City-lands for the fame {pace of

time; and they are to report the facie, and their opi-

nion which are fit to be continued, and which not. P.

Mr. Alderman Parsons has wrote to Mr. Alderman

Ghild, from France, to desire be will hold the annual

ai.

mient will be prepared at the expence of 12 Stewards ;

the said Alderman having put off his return to England

for some time. DF.

We are assured, that the report of the Indian chiefs

quarreiling among themselves at the Mermaid inn in Wind-

for, and were {sid te have been forbid the town, is en-

tirely without foundat:.n, they fill continuing ac the

same place in a very peaceable manner, and are daily vifi-

ted by a great many pevple. who resort from all parts

adjacent. C. I must own ingerucufly, that I was

apprifed of this mistake, befare the publicatto of cur loft

Journal, but, having made a remark on st, was loth 10

lofe my joke.

_ _Yelterday the 7 Indian Princes took leave of their \ a-

jeftics, and the rest of the Royal Family at Windsor, and

wil! this day come from thence to town, where we hear

they intend to ftsy tor some time, to fee all the curio-

fitres here, before they return home. D F.

Yesterday morning about 5 o’clock, one deme Pike,

who lived in Tothill fields, but commonly told milk in

St. James’s Park, near privy-garden, was found drowned

at the lower end of the canal in S:. James’s Park. over-

against the Horse-vuards, ‘The centry on duty near the

place where fhe was drowned, heard somebody cry our

Murder between toand t1 o’clock the night before; but

before ke could come to fee what was the mitter, then

wus no person to be fen; which gives gieat suspicion

of her being robbed, and afterwards thrown im to pre-

vent their being discovered, ‘ihe body was yestercay

morning carried to St. \artin’s Bone-house, inorcer tor

the Coroner’s jury to fit upon it this day. P.

The D. J. fays the Centine. heard her p'unging in the wa-

ter, but was afraid to attempt to fave her hic: and adds,

"tis believ’d the cause of her untimely end was by ‘ong

her way in the dork.

at a Sail-maker’s at Mill-bank, near Horflydown, as it is

said, by their ftuff taking fire, in mak:ng tarpawiins ;

which in a short time consum’d near 12 houses, most ly

the estate of Sir Thomas Stevens, Kt. formerly H:gh She-

riff for the County of Surrey, whose dweiliing-house nar-

rowly escap’d the flames; but by timely afiiltance of the

firemen, engines, and having plenty of water, it was ex-

tinguish’d, without doing any further damage: We co

noc hear of any persons that are loft. C.

Deal, Fuly 30. This day came here from Rsmfgate, to

get a passage tor Pool, Mr. Richard Sieat, Carpenter of

the Sh'p Joseph and Etizabeth, Captain John Rowies,

of and trom Poo), about 200 tons, bound tor Newcaftic;

who fays, on the 28th inflant they run a ground on the

S. E, {pit of the Goodwin Sands, about haifan hour past

8 in the morning, the wind about W.S. W. very thick

weather, and there beat about an hour and a half, till

they made much water in the hed, and thought their

Ship would part asunder, when they tock to their boat, in

all so men snd one boy, and about 4 or § in the atternoon

all got fafe on shore at Ramsgate on the Ile of Thaner.

Their Ship, after they had lete her, drove cff and tuck

in deep water. He also fays, another Ship at the same

time was a-ground a Cable’s lenzth from ihem, ane he

faw them get both their boats out, and the long boat row.

ing the yaul, which yaul quick y overict, and on her

bottom were four men about a cable’s length froia the

Ship; but in a few minutes both boats and men dii-

appear’d. 16. P. D.P. D. fF.

Oxford, Fuly29. Yesterday William Fuller was exe

cuted, pursuant to his sentence at the iaft assizes, for the

murder of his wife, by cho king and ttrangiiey her with

his hands, on the 6thof last month at Cavertham. which,

however, he deny’d to the last. Atter be was cutcown

the {cholars infilted to have the boiv, bur the prottors

were present, and order’d it to be deitver’a to his friends,

who put it into a coffin, but the mob got the eoftin

from them, and threw it into the water; the gownimcn

then jump’d in like {paniels, drew the body out of the

coffin, dragg’d it through the water, and carry’d it to

Lincoin College; thither the proctors went, and took it

from thence to a house in Bullock’s-lane, but the gownt:

men came soon after, broke open the door, and had car-

ry’d it about half a mile, when the proétors came aud

got possession of it again, and secur’d 1t in the caitle ;

Now the mob difpers’d, though the proc:amation, which

had been read by the Town-Clerk, wis not regarded.

About 11 0’ clock at night the body was brought out

of the castle, in order to be carry’d and convey’d away

in a boat, but in the way to the water-fice they were

{urpriz’d by a party of pownfmen, who lay in ambush,

and feiz’d the corpse, which is now diflccting in Christ-

Church College. D.F.

Oakingham (in Berkshire) Fuly 8. Five young fellows,

who was taken at Windsor and Datchet, (and taid to be

Ccurt next thurfday at Bridewel!, where a fine entertain. |

Yesterdsy morning, between § and 6, a fire broke out |

"oo Oe aSEETS . ee oe

~——-— Ee ee. =o

flreet-robbers} have Gecw cai. yu worcaga cur town to

Reading goal: There were oniy 3 men to guard them

who had but one pifto! among them; oneot the ropies

having concealed a penknile, let himself loose, and one

of hisCompenions, and made an attempt to stab the hinge.

moit man of the guard, but he had the good fortune to

strike him on the wrist, which obliged him to drop the

knife, and the man with the pistol coming to his af.

fiftance, with much ado they over-power’d them, and

carry’d them fafe to Reading, tho’ they thought they

mult have been oblip’d to kil some of them first : Ne.

ver were such audacions villains seen, their behaviour on

the road being inexpressible. Univ. Spcé.

William Gibson, the famous Quaker, of Gracechurch

street, hath taken a victualiing-houte in Birchin-lane, and

is putting up a Very quaint sign, describing his ill ulage

from the Quakers. S$. 7. E.

The Clesgymen who perform marriages within the

rules of the Fleet prison, are under prosecution at the

fuir of the Crown, tor not giving their certificates upon

stampd paper, pursuant to the statute in that cafe made

and provided. 4d.

hionDAY, Aug. 3.

Wincfor Castle, Fuly 3. tis Majesty bas been pleas’

to appoint William Reea, Eig; to be bis Agent and Con.

ful General at Tripoli. And also to appoint James Suther.

lands Eig, to be Captain and Commander of his Majesty’s

Fort, call’d Fort Johnior, near Chavles-Towai in South.

Carolina in America, C. P. and D.P.

On faturday morning died Mr. Wood, the patentee for

making the Irish haif-pence and farthings, at his habita-

ton in Kiliegrew-court, Whitchall, C.

On farurday loft Mr. Dogget’s snnual gift of a coat and

badge ws rowed for by 6 young watermen, from the

Od Swan to the Swan at Chelsea Church, when the

fame was won by John Broughton, belonging to Hun-

gerford fairs, by 6 bots length. Ibid.

A Cotlec-house is fitting up in Lombard-street for

Arne Pond, who prosecuted Col. Charteris for a

rape, D P.

On faturcay morning the Chairman and Committee of

Jeflices, appointed at the last Sessions at Westminster for

the suppreiling the night-houses, and other diforceriy

houses in and near Drury-lane, met at Coventegarden

vestry, and took the examination of {everal substantiai

house keeprs and shop-keepers in Bridges-street, concern-

ing several night-houses and disorderly houses in that

neighbourhood, who harbour thieves, pickepockets, and

other lewd and idle persons, whereby they are frequent!y

citturb’d in the night-time; the Justicesimmediately iftu'd

out their warrants agunft the keepers and maintainers of

these houses, and dent the high Constable, and .a great

number cf petty Constables, to execute the f2mc; iome

of the offenders were appichended and brought before

the Justices, who bound them over to the Sessions; and

the nehbours who complain’d against them are alio

bound by recognizance to prefer bills of indi€@tment ?-

ganft them at the next Sessions at Westminster. it

men and women were at the same time brought befere

the Justices 5 but some of them being young finners, and

never in Bridewell before, were dischargea, upon their

izcming pemtence and promise of amencement 3 and the

remaining 4 Were committed to Bricewell in Totliil-

fields to hard labour: 3 of them were taken at 1» or!

o'clock, «xpoling their nakedne{s in the open flreet to

a.| passengers, and using most abominable fithy expression:;

the 4th was the famous Kate Heckabour (whole brether

vras lately hang’d at Tyburn) a woman noted in and a-

bout the Hundreds of Drury, for being a very terme

cant, and a terror, not ony to the civil part of the

nciphoourhood by her frequent fighting, noise, and {wear-

ing in he streets in the night-time, but al/oto ot!er wo-

men of her own profeffion, who presume to pay or pick

up men in herdifiri€t, whichyis half one jide of the wey

in Bridges-street. D. P.

TUESDAY, Ang. 4.

The current of advices which came by the 2 Hollard

Mails yesterday, is trong for war, confirming from ai

hands the inflexioility of the Courts of Vienna and Spain,

and insinuating a convention betweea the Empercr ond

the Great Duke of Florence for the introduction ot Gev-

man troops into Tulfcany. But the French Mail which

arrived yesterday also, brought an account in the Pas

Letter of the oth, N.S. that part of the Spanish troops

in the neighbourhood of Barcelona were o-der’d ini

their former quirters, and the rest were to flay in tho

principality, 10 con/ume the provisions and forraze that

have been getting together there, and to prevent their be-

ing {poil’d. This books very pacifick, and perivades us

the expedition will not go forward this year. The °:

of France was enter’d into the gth month of her pre::-

nancy, in perfect health; but a voung Prince of tht

ey eee

[Page 3.]

‘nod, the Count d’Ala's, brother to the Prince of Con-

ti, died the 8th, N.S. n the oth year of hisage, The

King of Denmark is very ills the King of Poland is not

well, and his fon, the E ectoral Prince of Saxony has a

fever. P.

We hear that the drawing of the prefint Utrecht Lot-

tery, at the detire of tevera, persons prit-cipaily concern’d

being now at their country icats in ¢!oJaud, and others

abroad, is defers’u tili the 7th of Sepember next: That

the late Lottery at the Hague is al; vrawn, and another

is publifled at the fame pisce to begin drawing about

Michae!mas next; and that at Bridges’s Cotice-house in

Cornhill, where uckets in both Letteries may be pro-

curd, and the prizes discounted, are kept tuch exaat

numerical tables or the did Lotteries, thae any person

concern’d in either of them may tee directly the iuccets

of any ticket thereof, in the printed lifts, which come

every post from Holland, when drawing; and by re-

giftering their numbers, may have immediate notice {ent

them of their fucceds, either in town or country. It

has been observ’d, that several yery great prizes in the

Dutch Loticries have lately fallen in England, (to wit)

one of £0,020 Giiders, one of 42,002 one of 30,000 one

of 20,02c, and two of 10,002, belides many other

considerabie beuchts. D. F.

The Lord Viscount Tyrconnel’s Lady.is given over

by her phyticians. D. P.

A compiaint has been made to the Trustees of the

Turnpikes vetween Kensington and Colnbrook against

one of their servants, tor beating 2 Colonels of the Foor-

guards, who attempted to ride through Hounslow Turn-

pike without paying the toll, and afterwards best the man

with theis whips. J6id.

Exon, dug. 4, This cay was celebrated the anniversary

diversion ot hunting the ram by the {cholars : What made

the solemnity more remarkable was, that his Royal High-

ness the Duke was pleas’d to honour it with his pree

fence 5 the Captain of the fchoo! presented him with a

ram-club; with which his Reyal Highness struck the

first stroke. His Royal Highne!s was in at the death of

the ram; and kis club was boody’i, according to c.-

ftom. There was afterwards a ipeech made by the

Captain; at which the Duke was aifo present: He then

proceeded to see the Chapel, the Hal', the Library, the

School, and the long Chamber; and it was generally

observed, that his Royal Highne/s returned to Windsor

very well pleasd. did.

On sunday morning an unhappy alarm happen’d in the

paifh Church of St. Giles’s in the fields, a pick-pocker

being taken up by the beadles over night, whom they

had secur’d in the round-house, was attempting to break

out in sermon time; but some people observing him,

came running to the Church crying out, F-yer! F yer !

(that being the name of one of the beadies) which io

surprized the audience, that some thinking the Church

had been on fire, and others that it was falling down, by

the cracking of the pews th-t was made by those that

endeaveured to get out firit; the pews being fait, they

were burit open, the Minister jump’d out of the pu.

pit; several had their legs and arms broke, and others

very much frighted. C.

The latter end of last week a thief got into the vestry

room at St. Brides, Fleet-street, and stole a fine new be-

ver hat of the Rev. Mr. Barnes, while he was reading

prayers. D,P.————— This is one of the bejt arguments

for Duakerism, that I have met with.

Yesterday in the atcernoon a fad accident happen‘d at

the upper end of Batrerfea Reach, where 2 Weft-country

boat being under fail before the wind just at high-water,

the fame ovet-turn’d; and out of 4 passengers that were

in the boat, only 2 escap’d being drown’d. The 2 per-

fons that were drown’d were taken in at Barn-elms, 1 of

whom was Mr. Banes, who liv’d at Mortlake. P.

Yestercay the Vintners company went up the river

in their barge a {wan hopping, according to annual cu-

ftom the first monday in August. Inth= afternoon they

return’d to the bowling green house at Putney, where

they had a fine entertainment provided fer them. I

am informed, that it was the company of Dyers, nos of

Vintners; that dined at Putney. E. P.

Colonel Chartres and his Lady being perfectly recon-

ciled to each other, and having made proper dispositions

for cohabiting together, he having cafhired his man tru-

fty Jack and others of his evil agents; they are to be

presented to their majesties one day this weeck on that

occasion. .S. FE.

On sunday evening last about fix 0° clock as John Ma-

fains, Beafley Magains, cabinet makers, and oth-rs, were

m company together at Mr. Hina’sy in the parith of St.

Anne’s, ene James Black a soldier came into the house,

intruded into their country, begun a quarrel, and there-

upon drew his {word aad stabb’d Beafley Magains above

3 inches €eep under his Left pap, which is thought

mortal by Mr. Beinard, Surgeon, who has examin’d the

fame, and made an affidavit to that purpose- before ja-

cob Bagny,, Eq; who committed the said Black to

Jail. Tord.

WEDNESDAY, 4m. §. ©

Laft monday the Maiter and Wardeos, with about 4°

on th: Livery of the Brewers Company, Went in their

ba ge from Black-fryers ttairs up the wacer, aud dia’d at

the lower King’s Arms at Fuham. The entertainment

was elegant, there be:ng veniion in plenty, French wines

Arrack punch, and thoie that chote good oid port had it

In short, every thing was in good order, snd the day ended

merrily. Mr. Andrew Crois is the p:efent Malter. The

fame day the vintners went out in their barge a {wane

gout. Te his Holinels’s election the Bmperde was

conienting, without which, however worthy of it, he

could not have had the keys. ‘The people who are mot

dilpieas’s with the choice, ate the Beneventines and the

SaVoyards, and the Citizensof Rome at first did not like

it : but these latter are entirely come over upon the me-

rit ot bis liberal heart, and his own great estate, being a-

bout 80,020 livres a year: Besides he has begun his reign

with a very pepe thing. The old man has order’d

the prices of bread, oil and foap to be lower'd. He fet

out to’ther day from St. Peter’s to Monte Cavallo, ¢-

midst great acclamations of the people, and distributed a

great number of gifts to the poor, both from the pub-

lick treasury and his own private purse. From the lat-

ter, they write to me, that he gave 1.00 crowns. His

hopping; end, if we are rightly inform’d, those Gentle-

men drunk three times more beer than the brewers.

Dublin, Fuly 2. The Commencements at the College

are put off to October, on account of the disputes oc-

casion’d by the stoppage of the Gentleman's degrees, who

is suppos’d to be concern’d in writing some f{candalous

libels on one of the fellows. The affair however, at pre-

fent, makes a great noise, and Mr. Fulkner, who pub-

lished the papers, is under such prosecution for it, that

he has petition’d the Gentleman offended, and profer’d

to burn 300 copies, on condition they would forgive

him. C,

A Merchant in town having lately imported some

wheat from Sicily, fowed a bushel anda hait of it in an

acre and quarcer, plantation measure,-at the Green-hilis

near this City, being foadvifid by aGent'em:n who knew

the nature of it to fow no more, which growth and in-

creife is very durprifing; the farmers come from al!

parts of the country to fee it and it is guarded day

and night by fevera! men, left it should be stole; out of

each grain {priogs up 11 or 42 stalks, and eoch stalk pro-

cuces 7 or 8 heads, which ail spread out at the top as a

woman's fan when opened; at a moderate computation

the bufhe] and a halt will produce upwards of 40 barre's ;

The Gentleman who imported ic has received 6! sterling

per barrel for fevera] barrels, tor feed. Jbzd.

From the P.gafus in Grub-street.

The learned Dr. Turner, whose excellent ftyle was

justly celebrated in one of our former Journa’s, has ob-

ligd the puclick with an old traniiation of Sir Uirich

Hutten’s treatise de Morbo Gallico, revised and re-

commended to the press by himself, with a preface to the

fame, and a letter at the close, to Mr. fames Fern Sur-

geon, concerning a very singular suppos'd infection. Our

ingenious editor, at the b yinniny of his pretace, ine

forms u:, that "sis now almost thirty years palit, since

he happen'd to meet with this little treetije of the French

Disease. With the perufal of which [after be had made

himself master of the old English Letter, the Orthe-

graphy then in uje, and many obsolete words and phra-

Jes} he was fo well pleased, that he resolved to translate

the fame, for his own particular satisfaction, leaving out

Jome of those antient words, yet still retaining sthers of

them, for the humour fake, he thinks, as much as any

thing, and putting the Translator's jence into our modern

Idiom. But, on Dr Boerhave’s commending this treatise,

this worthy Gentleman has been pleased to defer the pub-

lication of it no !onger and has added, for the humour

fake, \ think as much as any thing, a very ex"raordina-

ry letter to Mr. Fern, who, no doubt, thinks hiafelt

much oblig’d to him for the /ame.

FOREIGN NE WS.

Tuurspvay, Fuly 39

This day arrived one Niail from France.

Paris, Aug. 5- The Conferences cont.cwe {till at Com-

peign, at which all the foreign Ministers are very con-

stant. E. P,

The 28th past the grandson of Monf. de Chirac, a

physician to the Duke of Orleans, of but 10 ycats old

maintain’d a thefis in philosophy, at the Calege of the

four Nations, and the prelates and other p:rfons of di-

ftin€tion who were present, were much fui p:ized at the

profound learning of that child, who answer’d every ar-

gument that was propos‘d to him.

SATURDAY, Aug }.

Paris, Aug.s. N.S. Letcers jult arrived by the pot

from Romie, dated the 2cth, fly, the peope «re pleas’d

more and more with this Pope, and very much revret

his great age, thir king he will not live jong enough to

do all the good he is copableof doing, His understand-

ing is cear, and he is ot a firm seloiute mind; but for

ali thar, he ts not exempt trom infirmities, as indeed tew

Popes have been. He carvies the marks of age every

night to ted wth him, nor is he able to shake them

off in the morning: And morever, he is much at-

nephew paid a vwifit to the Chevalier de St. George; but

we know not whether it was a visit of respect only, or

upon any particular business. P.

This day arrived a Mail from Holland, and one from

France.

Madrid, Fuly 28. They are raising additional retruite

throughout this Kingdom to fill up the vacancies in the

troops. And ‘tis talked that several new men of war

are soon to be put on the stocks; in the meantime our

line of battle Ships consist of 20 in number, and we

hear 20 trigates from 160 20 guns. The flota from

the Havanna is expected at Cadiz nextweck, S.F.B.

Paris, July 31. Letters from Spzin mention, that the

fleet took es | tor the expedition to Italy was now ready

co put to fea, but that no orders were as yet issued for

its putting to fea, by resfon the succours promised were

not yet arrived, and the couriers being mot as yet re-

tarned from London and Vienna, ‘cis not expected the

said succours will be tent away till that time. [6id.

TUESDAY, Aug. 4.

Yesterday arrived the Mails due from France and

Hollind.

Rome, Fuly 22. N.S. When the Pope went from the

Palace of the Vatican to Monte-Cavallo, the streets were

filled with an infinite :umber.of people, who amidt

their repeated acclamations or God fave his Holiness, call’d

al ud tor justice, with regard to their oppreffions under

the Ministry of the last Pore. His holiness gave them

his biefling over and over; but that not contenting them,

ne gave them hopes that he wou'd redress their gries

vinces With all {peed. In short, he bas already taken off

the daty upon foap, and considerably reduc’d that upon

oil, for which the people have since express’d their joy

by repeated acclamations, We p-omife our selves a hap-

py reign under the pontificate of Clement XII. and the

racher, b-cause “tis piain his Holiness designs to take the

Government into his own Hands, He has forbid his

ministers to concern themselves with the subjects petiti-

ons, or with any thing that does not properly belong to

them, upon pan of his difp'eafure; and ” advi‘ed his

relations not to recommend to him any persons for o

fices, for that it is his resolution to confer them upon those

that he knows to be worthy of them. Cardinal Salviati

having requested him to give the short cloak to the Ab-

bot Autenovi, one of his nephews; his Holiness told

bim. his nephew’s preferment depended upon his beha-

tiour. Other Cardinals having taken upon them to ad

vife the holy Father in the choice of his Ministers; his

Ho.inels answer’d them, that it was their business to

chute a Pope, but ic was the Pope's business to chufe

b.s ministers. The pontiff having some days ago order’d

an account to be given him of the apostolick chamber,

and asked the treasurer how much cath there might be

in it; and he answering that there were but i$co

Crowns, his Ho.iness {een to be under some surprize,

and told him, he was richer when he wis a Cardinal,

than now that he was Pope, C. .

Milan, Fuly 22. The Imperialifts are fill in theie

quarters alo:y the!’o. A reportruns, that they are about

to detach 4000 men to join the 6000 Genoefe, in order

to be fent together to the Lile of Corsica, to reduce

the rebels, ’Tis also said that Count Merci is going.

to Turin, to execute a commission with the king of

Sardinia, touching affairs of the present conjuncture.

iv. E.

Prices of Goods at Bear Key on Menday.

per Quarter per Quarteé

Wheat —21 to 23 Hog Peas —— 15 to 18

Rye —— 10 to 12 6] Boiling Peas—z1 to 24

Barley ———11 to 14 Pale Malt — 1% to 20

Oats — 9 to 13 6} BrownMalt— 13 to 19 6

Horse Beans 16 to 24 Tares ————18 to 2¢

Coals 218, to 23s. per Chaidron.

Hops 1728 = 18s. to 26s. per Hundred.

Hops 1729 — 30s. to 4§s. per Hundred,

flifted veith the gout, or what pafics there for the

Rape Seed 121. to 12}. tos, per Laft,

[Page 4.]

On TueGay Stocks were 7

_» Sonth-Sea 103 4 8ths, ‘alihess the Dividend... South

j Sea Annuity 107 3 Sths, a1 half. Bank 141 3 4ths,

;az. India 184, a1 gth Three per Cent, Annuity

495 7 8ths. Milion Bank 108. African 44. York Build-

ings 18 ¢.8ths. Roydl Assurance (1001. paid in} gt.

London ditto (131. paid in) 12. Bank Circulation 8).

1¢ % South Sea Bonds 51.48. India ditto 5 l. 10 &.

knglifth Copper 31.108. Welth ditto 11. 105,

The Course of the Exchange.

Amsterdam 34 9 Madrid 42 1 8th

Ditto at Sight 34 6 Bilboa 32

; Rotterdam 34 10 Léghoro 0 3 4the

Antwerp 34 3 Genoa $4

Hamburgh 33 4 Venice 48 1 balf

Parisat fight 32 3 4th Lisbon ¢ 3.64.

‘Bourdeaux at tight 321 8th | Potto4s. 5d.

Cadiz 42 | Dublin 10 1 4th

ADVERTISEMENTS.

This Day is published,

Vindication of his Excellency tie Lord C——

A trom the Charge of favouring none but Tories,

High-Churchmen and Jacobites.. By the Reverend Dr,

The second Edition. Printed tor T. Wainer at

the Black-vy in Pater-nofter-row; and fold by the Book-

fellers of London and Westminster, Oxford and Cam-

bridge.

t

S—te

) id “age Person, an | NGLISH MAN] one of a

libera! Euucation, who has ip:nt many Years in

taveli.y imo :0reign Paris, and {peaks the Lanzuag sot

teveral Countrt 3, would will ngly ietle into some good

Family ot Faihion, in or about Town, cither in the Na-

tire 2! a Tutor to Chiddren, or to fer-e in any other Ca-

picky a$ tie might pe judged beit quality tor in such a

imily,

\ &. He ean be very well recomm:nded, and may be

herd of every Day, by leaving Directions with Mr, Co-

g°, a Bookseller near T nple-bar, or at the strand Cot-

f -houte near Eyet r-ch nge.

This Week will be publish’d,

Ain w tuition, netly pune d in 12mo. of

HE Works of Mr. Witizm Conereve, In three Vo-

lumes, Conti{ti 1g, of his Plays and Poems, Printed

fo J. Tonfon in the Suand., Where likewise may be had,

just puolith d,

he Second Edition of Mr. Addison’s Works, in 4 Vols.

40 With compleat Indexes.

— His Evidences of the Christian Religion, &c. in 12mo.

Tie Second Edition ot Dr. Mandeville’s 1 reatife ot Hy-

fochondriack and Hyiterick Ditcafes. Corre€ted and en-

are’d,

_ Shuckford’s Connection of the sacred and prophane Hi-

story, In two Vols, Svo.

The Second Fdition of Fontenell’s Dialogues of the Dead.

Translated from the French by the late John Hughes, Esq;

Milton’s Paradise lott and regain’d, in 2 Vols Svo.

_ The Seventh Edition of Echard’s Ecclesiastical History,

In two Volumes, 8vo.

The Tenth Edition of Prid

aux’s Connection, in 4 Vols,

Ags

ith Curs and Maps, 8vo.

Justt published,

(Price Three Shillings bound.]

HE Art of Heraldry. Containing 1. The Original

» = and Universality of Arms and Ensigns, with their

Wie and Neceflit; their Blazon, Distribution, Abatements,

and Rewards of Honour. II. Of diverse kinds ot Et

Cotcheons, and of the baring or using the Ordinaries in

~Oat Armour, Tlf. Of Coat Armour form’d of Artificial

] hings, whether Civil, Ecclesiastical, Military or Marine,

Nich as are made by man, or for h.s Use. IV. OF Chages

‘ Coat Armour form’d of Corleftials, as the Sun, Moon,

ars, Angels, &c. Of Vegetables, as Trees, Flowers,

ih ints, Fruits, &c. Of the Parts of Man’s Body, as the

5 ands, Legs, Arms, Heart, &c. Of Animals, as Lyons,

Tyo rs, Hotes, Stags, &c. in Whole and in Parts. V. Or

harges from Fowls and Birds of all Sorts, in Whole and

in Parts. VI. Of Charges from Fithes of all Kinds, in Whole

and in Parts. VILLOf Charges from Monstrous Aniinals, in

Whole and in Parts Embellith’d with Forcy Copper

Plates, containing above 900 Coats of Arms of the Nobi-

licy and Gentry ot G eat Br tain and Ireland, curiously

enzaven, with their particular Descriptions, and by whom

bon, Int ripers'd with the Natural History of the fe-

veral Spocies of Birds, Beasts, Fishces, Vegetables, &c.

comprehend :d therein, Together with Occasional Expli-

cations of all the Terms used in the Science of Heraldry,

and peculiar thereto, To which is prefix’d, An Alphabde-

tical Lit of the Names of the Families whose Caats are

Celineate! in the Book, with References tu the Pages where

they are to be found. Printed for J Osborn» neir Dock-

her’, ‘n Southwark: And Sold by A. Bettesworth in Pa-

ter-No‘ter Row, and F, Cogan at the Middle Temple

G Fleet-street, 1720.

; following Pla

at the Middic Tempie-gace-

Plays in Quarto.

Scornful Lady

Wit without Money

Spanish Curate

Valentinian.. Chances

Custom of the Country

Wite fora Month

Wh @ ieveral Weapons

Coxcomb. Bonduca

} Bloody Brothers

Maia’s Tragedy

Woman- Hater

Humorous Lieurenant

Love lies a Bleeding

Double Marriage

Bland Princess

Loyal Subje&

Love’s Cure

Prophetefs. Pilgrim <

Rule a Wile, and have a Wile

Beggar’s Bush

Maid in the Mill

All these by Beaumont and

Fleccher

Artful Husband

Jane Gray

Governor of Cyprus

Perfidious Brother

Liberty asserted

Scowerers. Virtuoso

Duke of Guile

Massacre ot Paris

Lobe’s Paradise

French Puritan

Perplex'd Lovers

Love in a Wood

Junius Brutus

Epiom Wells

Injur’d Love

Philosophy no Deience against

Love

Persian Princes

Cheats. Ulyfies

Amorous Bigot

Perolla ard Ifad va

Arfinoe, Queen of Cyprus

False Frtend

W omai’s Wir

Plays in O&avo

Imp*rial Captives

Kensington Gardens

Czfar in Aigypt

Henry lV. ot France

be fold for 6d. apiece, at Mr. John

} Osorn's at Doc Seed, eat Horflydown, and at F. Cogan’s

Spartan Lame

English Chevalier

Whig and Tory

Invader of his Country

Artful Wife

Antiochus

Love and Liberty

Rival Generals

Roman AG&ors

Faults on both Sides

Love in a Voreft

Lotery. Sultaness

Henry VI. Edwin

Fall of Saguntum

Female Fop

Female Parson

Henry V. Revenge

Hibernia Freed

Facal Legacy

Capricious Lovers

Lady's Philosophy

Plays in Twelves

Sir Walter Raleigh

Perpl.x'd Couple

Country Wife

Don Sebaftiin

Loudon Cucxolds

Love in a Sack

Apparition :

Bold Stroke for a Wife

Heroick Daughter

Noah’s Flood

Baffler Table

Injured Virtue

Scipio Atricanus

Pecticoat Plouer

Slip. Clouds

Bricannicus and Alexander

World’s Ido!

Litigants. Viaim

Peruian Princess

Richmond Heirefs

Tottenham Court

Halt Pay Ofhcers

Cuckolds make chemfilves

Athaliah

Wite to be Lere

She Gallants

Pethidious Bruther

Lady’s Triumph.

Woman's a Riddle

Briton

Duke of Gloucester

Where may be had gteat Variety of Novels at the fame Price.

Ddifon’s Works, 4 Vol.

in 4to.

Gay’s Fables.

Mandevill’s Free Thoughts

—— Ditto Fable of the Bees,

2 Vol.

DittoVirgin unmask’d.

Ditto Hy pochondriack

Boyer’s Telemachus, 2 Vol.

Pilgrin’s Progrets.

Mufteal Dictionary.

Buckingham’s Works, 2 Vo!,

Boyer’s Dictionary abridg’d.

Pope's Homer's Iliad, 6 Vol

——Dito Odyfy’s, 5 Vol.

BOOKS printed and fold by Jon Brotherton ar the

Bible next the three Tun Tavern in Cornhill.

King’s H. Gods.

Blair's Sermons, § Vol-8vo.

Gordon’s Geog. Grammar,

Plutarch’s Lives,8 Vol. 8vo,

Milton’s Paradise lott.

Ditto rezain’d.

Clarendon’s History, 6 VoL

Guardians, 2 Vol.

Cooke's Dete&tion, 3 Vol.

Poileau Oeuvre Poetique.

Colleétion of Novels.

Sh-befpear’s Plays.

Ovid’s Epistles.

Ditto Artof Love.

Abelard’s Letters.

Lockman.

Divine. A Satire.

and a Christian.

immortales, -

Notes and Epigrams.

Frontispiece

the Age. By the Author o

tuation of Affairs.

This Day is published,

N Ode. Inscribed to his Grace the Duke of RBuck-

ingham, on his embarking for France. By John

O quz fontibus integris

Gaudes, apricos ne&te flores,

Nette meo Lamix ¢coronam,

Pimplea dulcis.

Printed for Lawton Gilliver, at Homei's Head, a-

gainst Se. Dunstan’s Church in Fleet-street; price 4d.

_. Where may be had, just published,

Blasphemy as old as the Creation, or the Newgate

: Ad irefs’d to the modern Advocates of

Irreligion, Prophaneness and Infidelity. By a Gentleman

Horat.

Quod fi in hve erro, quod animos hominum immortales

effe credam, libenter erro: Nec mihi hune errorem,

quo delector, dum vivo, extorqueri volo, animas cffe

quicquid dixit, Omnium Anima-

rum Socius W. Tindall.

At: 3.

A new Edition of the Dunciad, with some additional

Tully.

A new Edition of the Art of Politicks, with a curious

lect Rifum teneatis Amici?

Two Epistles to Mr. Le concerning the Authors of

th

e Universal Pafiions.

The Merchant. A Naivai Lvrick. By the fame Anthor.

An Fpiftle to the Earl of Cheste: field on the present Si-

This Day is published, in a neat pocket Volume, Price z s,

6 de the second Edition with Addizions of

H E In:clligencer. By the celebrated Author of the

Tale of a Tub.

Omne vafer vitium ridenti Flaccus amico

Tangit, & Adm'ffus asvcum pracordialudit, Perf.

Containing, Theinhotp:tasic Temper of Squire Wether.---

A Vindication of Mr. Gay, and the Beggar's Opera. --—-

The Folly of Gaming. A Description of what the

World calls Ditcretion. A Keprefentation of the

present Condition of Ireland. ~ The Characters of

Corufades and Eugenio.———— A Dialogue between Mul-

iniz and Timothy.———T he foolish Methods uf Edu-

jon among the Nobility. Tim, and Gay’s Fables.

---- Propotals in Prose ant Verse for an universal View

of the eminent Writers of the holy Scriptures, Sir

Ralph the Patriot turn’d Cou:ticr——The Art of Story-

telling. Promethus’s Artof Man-making. and the

Tale of a T—d, -——~———- The Services the Draper has

done his Country, and the Steps taken to ruin i, ———~

The Adventures of the three Brothers, George, Patrick

and Andrew. The Marks of lieland’s Poverty,

shewn to be evident Proofs of its Riches. St. An-

drew’s Day, and the Draper’s Birth-day.——The Hard-

ships of the Irish being deprived of their Silver, and de-

coy d into America xan Smedley gone to feek

his Forcunc.—The Pheasant and the Lark: A Fable.

Printed for, and fold by Francis Cogan, at the Middle.

temple-gate in Fleet-street.

Where may be had,

The Life of the Right Reverend Dr. White Kennett,

late Bishop of Peterborough; with tevcral original Let.

ters of the late Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr. Tenaifon 5

the late Earl of Sunderland; Bishop Keaner, &c. ani fone

cutious original !ape:s and Records, never before pub-

lithed. And also

The Foreigner’s Guide : Or, a noceffary and iaftrudtive

Companion, both for the Foreigner and Native, in their

Tour through tie Citics of London and Weitm

Giving,

1ft. A general De! tion of

Account of their! ttive ‘

ritere

ee two Cities, with an

edly. A Deferpion et the Roy aiaces, Noblemens

Horses, Pp Py ICK bud 25> B } Stree Sy S« uares,

and the mofr ena le fliecs im and near the famous

M.tropolis : Wir! ‘ccount or the Inns of Court, Royal

Socety, publick Walks, Dive

Court Diys, Poff Days. And,

adiv. A Deferiprion «t the feve-al Villages in the Neigh-

bourhoed 5 28 Ch-tez, Kensington, Richmond, Green,

wich, Woo wich, F ampftcad; and also others more re-

mote, \iz) Hamp’on-court, Windsor, Oxford, Cambridge.

B'cnheim, apelin see Horse-races, Epsom, Tunbridge,

Bath. And,

athly. An Aceonnt of the Rates of Coaches, Watermen ;

and also the Rats of Post-hories; with the Roads to

Dover and Harwich. ;

Very useful and entertaining beth to Foreigner and Nas

tive, and dene into Enzlifh ana 7

LOVE LETTERS on all Occasions, lately paf-

fed between ytes of Diftin€tion. Colleéted by Mrs.

Eliza Haywood.

Pleasure with Sorrow, Peace wich War allay’d,

Liberty fetter’d, Hope by Fear dismay‘d ;

Imbitter’d Honey, Earnest mix’d with Play,

Art, Love! the Emblem of thy foy’reign Sway.

fions, *¢«markable Days,

The Calefiial Anodyne Tinflure’: Or, The Great Paia-

Fafing Medicine,

Rare and approv’d of far its won-

derful and never-failing Success,

in giving immediate Fafe and Reliet

in all manner of Pains, either inward

or outward, and is the most certain Ke-

medy in the World for a fure and

speedy Cure of the Cholick, and

expelling Wind, Gripes and Pains

the Pleurify, stitches or pains in the

in the Stomach,

fide, back, loins, or any other patt; Rheumat.ck A:l-

ments, which’ cause pain and dolor, It hath fiven

ease to a Miracle, when all other Remedies have faii’d;

In the Gravel and Stone in the Kidneys, it gives ease

forthwith, and brings them away to Admiration. It also

facilitates and causes a speedy Delivery in Child-birti.

Tis no peck trifling thing to allure the World with, but

a_rceal an well-experienced Medicine, not 2€ting by Stu-

pifaétion (as Opiates) but by a friendly, balsamick, and

fibtile Nature, pacifying the most severe and terrible rack-

ing pains, and carries off the Canfe, not by purging, but

by Transpiration, by Urine, or breaking Wind. No Fa¢

mily ought to be without it; and used outwardly it cures

Swellings, Aches, Pains, Numbness or Weakness of the

Joints; 'tis excellent for Cramps, and all other ‘aged In-

firmitics, effi€ting Wonders in Agues, Fevers, Small-pox, &c.

It is sold only by Mr. PARKER, Printer, at his House in Salisbury-Court, or by such persons as he shall depute, at Eighteen-pence a Bottle, with printed Directions: and, if requested, will be brought to any person, by the Hawker who sells his Penny Post.

Note, 'Tis seal'd as above, to prevent Counterfeits.

LONDON: Printed by Mr. Moore, for Captain Gulliver, near the Temple, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in.

[Price Two Pence.]

