Numb. 33.

The Grub-street Journal.

Thursday, AUGUST 20, 1730.

Proposals for erecting a College for the habitation of Grub-street Authors, by Giles Blunderbuss, Esq; Historian to the Grubean Society.

Quis expedivit pfittaco fuum yates ? :

Picafque docuit nojira verba conari §

Magifter artis, ingentque largitor

Venter, negatas artifex fequt voces.

Quod fi dolofi fpes refulferit nummi 5

Corvos poétas, &F pectridas picas

Cantare credas Pegajeium melos. Perf.

it’s name has within these few years been

fo metamorphofed, that it is no longer

fit for the reception of Authors. — There

is now not fo much as one Printer or

HM Bookseller left in it: nor any sign of lite-

rature remaining, beside this single houte, which is appropriated to the weekly mectings of the Society, and the

residertce of two or three of it’s members. And this

very house is become fo crazy, that the residentiary

members begin to be afraid of dwelling in 1t any longer :

and they would long ago haveremoved, if they could have

supported the expence of better accommodations. No-

thing can be more unjuit, than that those who are contie

nually employing themselves in the service of the publick,

faould be deititute of a convenient habitation provided at

the publick Expence. I propose therefore either that

some new College be erected in or near this City, or the

Jimits of tome old one sufficiently extended to receive

those generous persons, who are daily labouring for the

publick good, . I cam think of no Situation more proper

than Moorefields, not only on account of the neighbour

hood of Fore-street, that grand Emporium of pudding

and pease porridge: but alio because of it’s adjoining to

ghat famous feat of war, which may afford frequent op-

portunities of celebrating the great atchievements of our

city Heroes. The vicinity of that College, which already

occupies the South fide of those fields, will be a confide-

rable Advantage. © For as that College is made a habita-

tion for Authors of the highest Spirit: the nearneis of

the two Buildings will make the removal of fech as shall

deserve that high Station, the less troublesome. On this

account, it would not be improper to carry on the wings

of the old College to the end of the ficlds, and erect a

new building opposite to the body of the old one. An

Edifice of this extent would be capable of containing the

greatest part of our authors, and, I believe, all of any

considerable rank among us. The ground Floor might

be allotted for Politicians, News-writers, Criticks, Com-

mentators, and others, whose gravity might endanger

the upper stories: anda decent office might be ere¢ted

in the yard, for the writers on the prattife of Physick ;

where, with the afliitance of two or three Looking-gla{-

fes, they might compleat the true facies durum cacantis,

which jome of them ina great degree have already ob-

tained. The middle floor might contain the Divines,

Philosophers, Historians, &c. and the upper Story the

Poets of all denominations. Galleries might be built

round the Chimneys, for the Speculations of Prophets,

Theoriits and Astrologers. The walls would furnish a

sufficient Station for Booksellers, after the old manner :

and the whele 4rea might be planted with Hellebore for

the use of such as should be thought worthy of being re

moved to the Southern part 6f the College.

If such a College as this was once built, the publick

uced be at no farther expence in the support of fo many

useful persons. The Profits arising from their works

would be a constant supply to them of food and raiment:

especially, if it should be thought proper to make this a

privileg’d place; which would much conduce to the

ease and tranquility of the Inhabitants.

I do not doubt but this Proposal will meet with uni-

Verial approbation, and that we shall soon fee this learned

te flewrish in a degree suitable to its dignity and ule-

To My. Bavuus, Secretary to the Grubzan Society.

SIR,

Offefs’d with a. Notion of the Sertes Virgiliane, I

dipt other day into the Aéneid at a venture, to

try the King of Spain’s Fortune, and open’d, bona fide,

Dido: Lib. 5. V. 351.

Me Patris Anchifa, quoties bumentibus umbris

Nox operit Terras, quoties affra ignea jurgunt,

Admonet in femnis, &F turbida terret Imago;

Me Puer Ajcanius, capitifque injuria cart,

Quem regno Hefperia fraudo, atalibus arvis.

But not content with this lucky Hit, 1 was resolv’d to

play the Critick, and fee whether fF a {mall and tri-

fling Variation from the Original cou’d not make

this Passage {till more apposite to the Circumstances of

that Great Monarch; to ufe then the Bentleian ftyle,

read it thus at my Peril.

Heu me Regine, quoties humentibus nmbris

Nox operit Terras, guoties afira gnea /urgunt,

Admonet in Leis, & tarbida terret Imago:

Infanus me Carolus, capitifque injuria cart, .

Quem regno He/peria fraudo, atgue Ducalibus Arvis.

I make no doubt that the French Criticks, and Dutch

Commentators, will readily accede to this Reading 5 nei-

ther can the Germans in Reason and good Sente retuie

todo the &me. But, perhaps, these Alterations in fo

critical a Junéture may seem too bold, wherefore Pil con-

clude my Applications wirh an Hemistick in the fame

Speech, which his Catholick Majesty may repeat word

for word after the Pious Hero,

Italiaga non {ponte fequor.

Ang. 19th, 1730 Yours, Sortitecus.

To the Society of Grubstreet.

GENTLEMEN,

HERE is one Species of News left untouch’d by all

the Weekly Writers, which I could wish you would

make it, your Provinee to communicate to the World.

To entertain us with real or fi€titions Tran{actions is all

that our greatest Historians, either Burnet or Gulliver

what will befal Kingdoms in future Times, is the task

they have left for you to perform. And yet as arduous

an one as it seems to be, if you look into the Writings

of some Revelation-Philosophers you will not want tor

Fatelligences of this Nature. At present I instance in the

Contents of Mr. W---n’s Astronomical Lectures, where,

it is proved, it seems,. That the grazd intermediate

Breaches in every one of the four Monarchies were imme-

diately preceded by great Eclipfes of the Moon; all visible

in the Jann Monarchies; and that accordingly 1736, the

GRAND PERIOD of the ten Kingdoms ar of the Last

STaTE of the Roman Monarchy witl be peculiarly remar-

hai-'e for such great Eclipjes.

Dr. Clarke, p. 150]-Your Society, I doubt not, will fur-

vive the Wreck of Empires; and as you now generously

publish his Predition, I hope you or your Successors wil]

it, But if it should unhappily fail in this particular, then

let Poiterity know that it is easier to calculate Eclipjes

in the Heavens, than the Downfal of Kingdoms on the

Earth.

Iam, Gentlemen, your Well-wither, &',.

To the Secretary of the Grubzean Society.

SIR,

W

land, three loyal Divines express’'d their Zeal up

been our most incomparable Poct-Laureat.

upon this part of AEneas’s speech, when taking leave of

have pretended to: But to give an exact Chronology of

[See Mem. of the Life of

hereafter point out to the World the Accomplishment of

HEN his Royal Highness came over into Eng-

on the Occasion, in the Spirit of Grub-street Poetry.

However, some difaffeéted Fellow was’pleased to banter

their Compositions in the following Epigram. As it

pofibly might never have come to your Hands, I

thought proper, by fending it, to give your Society an

Opportunity of vindicating, if they judg’d fit, their

reverend Members; among whom there seems to have

The Epi-

gram, if I miQake not, is made in Imitation of Drv-

pen’s upon Minton, which you may read in the

Frontispiece ot any Edition of this last Author,

in the fame Age and Ife three Bards Divine,

Their Prince to celebrate, invek’d the Nines

The First in Nathingness of Thought furpa/s'd,

The Next in Bombafts and in Both the Lap:

Dallness, to crown her fav’ rite Laurcat’s Strain,

Mix'd a due Portion of the former Twain.

August the 17th,

1730.

Yours,

Puito-Gruspeus.

LONDON.

THuurspDay, Aug. 13.

Notice is given to al! peers, peerefles, and privy

Counsellors, that the Court goes into mourning on fon-

day the 16th infant, for her highness Benedi@a Hen-

rietta, Dutchess Dowager of Brunswick and Lunenbure.

The Ladies on publick days to wear black filks, plain

linnen, black and white fans, and no colour'’d tippets,

and on private days white or gray filks; the men to

wear black swords and buckles, a | plain linnen, and

on private days to weargray. P.

His Majesty bas given orders for the four ponds in

Hyde-park to be laid together, in order for a fine ca-

nal to be made there, with other commodious alte-

rations. Jd/d.

Yesterday morning about 1 0° clock died at his house

in Little Ormond-street, the youngest daughter of the

Hen. Horatio Townshend, Eiqs brother to the Lord

Viscount Townshend, and representative in Parliament

for Heytesbury in Wilthhire. Jéid

Thomas Barnes of Wiltthire, Efg; has made a bett

of 1000 guineas, that he rides 200 miles and walks 30

in one day : To be perform’d in October next at Neiw-

market, half forfeit. D.F.

The King has been graciously pleas'd to give the

fum of 100]. to Mr. Pine, who dedicated his procef-

fion of the Knights of the Bath to his Majesty. “Zia.

One Allen, a milk-woman in Swallow-street, having

had some words with her husband, told him when he

went to work yesterday morning, that fhe would han

herself; which fhe accordingly did at her bed’s feet. 4.

Mr. Chickin, an agreeable young Gentleman, of a

considerable estate, who lately came over with the In-

dian Chiefs of South-Carolina, where he was born, of

English parents, is next week to be married to Miss

Buich, of Wandf{worth in Surry 5 a young Lady of great

beauty and merit. ‘The account infe:ted in one of yeller-

day’s Newsepapers of the said young Lady’s being to be

married next week to one of the Indian Generals, is

false and groundless. §. %. E. --e- The London Evening

has copied the paragraph, which this Author asserts to

oe nse.

efterday died at-Lowton in Eff ~, the Rev. Mr.

Pritchard, Rettor of Christ-Church in Spittle-fields, and

Fellow of Brazen Nofe College. ZL. £.

Fripvay, Aug. 14.

Yesterday at a general Court of the Governors of

Christ’s hoipiral, Sit Hans S'oune, Bar. resign’d his office

of ph) fician to the {aid hof) tal, and receiv’d the thanks

ot the Court for his good services P,

The fame day th: tollowing Gentlemen were con-

firm’d as Governors of S. Bartholomew’s hospital, viz.

Thomas Hardy, Eig) Thomas Garrard, Ef; Common

Sergeant, Thomas Inwen, E{q; Marmaduke Al ington

Eiy; and Thomas Tryon, Eig; Jbid 5 id

_ On tueiday night last one Francis Russell, a centine]

in he first regiment of Fcot-guards, who liv

fircet, in the Min’, was committed to the

Southwark, being charg'd with crucliy

with the heel of his shoe, the being big with child, and

attcrwards cutting her throat to the wind-pipe 3 of

which fhe dy’d on wedaeWay nicht D. F.

On wednesday night the women filons under sentence

of transportation in Newgate, who are confin’d on the

common fide in the womens ward, attempted an escape

and having got proper tools for that Purpose, cut off

one iron bar; but being timely dif{cover’d by the Turn-

keys, two of the ring-leaders were put into the cells, C.}

Yesterday dy’d at Low-Layten, in Essex, the Rev.

[Page 2.]

"din Mint-

the new gaol in

beating his Wite

a} . st si

Mr. Pritchard, R-Gor of ChristeChurch Spitts!-Sel}s,

and Fellow of Brazen-Nofe Colleze in Oxon. D. P..

The Courant tells us, that the Rev. Mr. Pritchard

died y<esterday at Low-Layton; the Daily Journa.=l agrees

with the London Evening.

SATURDAY, Ang. 15.

On tuefday last the Court of Altiftanrs of the Barbers

and Surgeons Company order’d that a buft of the E.

of Burlington should be made in marble by an eminent

hand, to be plac’d in their theatre, asa teRtimony of their

gratitude for his noble benetaction in repairing an‘ beau-

tifying that curious piece of architecture: At the fame

time they agreed to constitute a demonstrator of anato-

my; who tor some days atter the publick anatomical

lectures in their theatre might instruct the apprentices

in the ftruéture and uses of the several parts of the hu-

man body, the diseases they are liable to, and the chirur-

gical operations necessary to their cure. To this office

they unanimously choie the very ingenious Surgeon,

and accurate antagonist, Mr. Joshua Symons, Surgeon

to St. Thomas’s Hefpiral, who has for many years given

courses of Anatomy in this city with great ap;lause.

C. P.& D. P.

Several people that were in St. Giles’s Church last

Sunday fe’nnight, when the great confusion happen’d

there amongst the Congregation at divine Service, by

_their fancying the Church was falling upon them, (oc-

cafiond by the Artifice of a Prisoner who had made his

-escape trom the Constables, are since dead of the burt

‘they receiv’d, in particular a Butcher's Wife of Blooms-

bury Market, who died last night S§. yf E.

be Daiy Pott tells us that Mr. Pritchard died on

“Thursday, and adds learnedly, ‘uppoted to be fuftocated

with tat The St. James's aad Whitchal Evening Pofts

as 4 with the Daily Pott; dut the Evening Poit /ays be -

ded on Wednesday.

Monpay, 4g: 17.

For the better aifcovering and briaging to justice the

. persons concern’d in {ending the tw threatning: Let-

ters to Narhanicl Gould, Eig; his Majesty has been plea.

* fed to promise his mott giacious pardon to any one

who hal dif; over his Accomplice or Accomplices, so as

« he os they may oe ap rehend:d and convicted thereof;

“and as a further encouragement tq sucha discovery the

“said Nathaniel Gould, Fig; docs hereby promise, that

“whoever shall discover the person r persons who fent

or cont ived, or directed the fending the said Letters,

or either of the , fo that he or thcy may be conviéte

‘thereot shall upon such conviction reccive 48 a reward,

the fum ot ¢ |. trom him the daid"Na hanielGou'd C.

On friday last, Mrs Twi! eton, a reation ot Sir Tho-

mas Twi..cton’s, depotited in the hands of the Gover-

nors of St. Bartholomew’s hospical, the fum of soc I.

for which they are to pay her >]. per cent. per annum,

‘during her lite; and at her death it devolves to the {aid

‘hospital =P. .

Yesterday in the evening the Indian King and Prince,

‘and their Chiefs, went to Christ’s hof ital, to see the

@» * children at supper; after which they were very cle-

-.*gantly entertained at the houfé of Richard Cheek, Eiq,

*treasurer of the {aid hospital. Jdéd.

The Fox man‘ot war haviny been refitted at Dept-

© ford, is delignd to carry Rob. Johnson, Esq; to his

Government of South-Carolina. The Indian C jets,

who are now under his cafe, are to imbark with him

- in the said man of war. D F.

The latter «nd ot this week, upwards of $0 recruits,

now in the Savoy, are to shipp’d off, to reinforce his

Majesty’s garr fons of Gibraltar and Port Mahon. P

Laft friday night » rozues fet upon Sarah Sands, a

* servant maid at Stoke-Newington, and arother young

" woman, near Kingsland Turnpike; and after robbing

them, they stoppd their mouths with handkerchiets,

and endeavourd to ravish them; but before they had

compleated their delign, were glad to make off, 2 Gen-

tleman riding towards them. ‘The next day a man was

feiz’'d at lilington, on {ufpicion of being one of the

villains, but was discharg’d for want of sufficient evi-

dence to commit him. did.

We hear that at the late assizes held at Bridgewater,

an indiétment was preferr’dagaintt a Sow-zelder, for at-

tempting to {pide ({pay) his wife; but fhe refus’d to

prosecute, and acknowledged her torgiveness of him, and

defir'd the Court woud do the fame However the

Couvt remanded him to prison, and, for the fake of the

ood women in general, order’d him to remain there

till he could give 4. 1. security for his good behaviour

during lite. Theoccasion of this vileattempt was this:

The Sow-gelder being in company with fevera! marry’d

men over a por of alc, they all join’d in complaint of

the fruitfulness of their wives, because of the charges

brought upon ‘em thereby; and asking him, whether he

could not dasby their wives as by other animals ? he

fai! he could; and they ail agreéd their good women

should undergo the operation, provided he would begin

wh his own: This, ith a great oath, he undertook,

and going home, by violence gagz’d and bound his wife,

and laying her ona table, made a tranverse incifion on

the fidy of her belly; bute after much puzzling, and put-

ting the poor woman to great torment, he found there

was some difference between the situation of the parts

in the rational and irrational animal, and fo, fewing up

the wound, he was fore’d to give up the experiment.

The woman in hei first agonies, appear’d ftrenuouily a-

gainst him, but being recovered bs the timeof the trial,

was fo generous as to forgive him, and plead tor his

pardon, as above. The poor women would have a fad

time on’t, if this-operator had pune thro’ his enyaze-

ment, and it had hecimea fashionable experiment and

our Grub-street Friends perhaps will be witty on this

affair in their next papery and tell us, ‘was well tor the

Sow-gelder, that his wite ws$ fo good a Christian that

fhe could forgive him , and that most others ot the fex

would have prov’d inexorable prof cutors on this enor-

mous and unheard of occasion I remember to have

reai one instance (if 1 mistake not) of the Puke of

Cleve’s Sow-geider, who actually performed this opera-

tion on his daughter, whom ie fufp:étd to Le young

with child by an inveigiing courtier; but as he went

through-stitch with his work, io bis Prince went through *

stitch with him, putting kim to a crue] and exemplary

death for fo inhuman an action D F. --- I heartily

thank my ingenious Brother, not only for giving me an

opportunity of being witty, but also, for putting words

in my mouth. But I cannot perfectly agree with him

about the inexora'ility of the govd women for tho’ the

Sow-gelder’s operation was levell’d against their fruite

fulne's, yet be never intended to deprive them of ufiiig

the means.

TUESDAY, Aug. 18.

On sunday in the evening srived in town Mr. Hicks,

Purser of the Mermaid, Capt. Pearce, in 1» weeks pat-

fage from Guiney, and Buenos Avres, chiefly loaded with

hides, on account ot the Scuth-Sea Company; fhe tlaved

for 65> .aves from Guiny, and brought in her whole

cargo to Buenos Ayrcs without the lois of one. By her

we learn, that the leit the Essex, Capt. Puk-thman, at

Buenos Ayres, who expected to fail tor Enyiand in two

months C. ,

Dr. oln:, Ph fician to his Majesty, who has been

dangerously iJ] of a fever, is fo well recovere‘, that he

goes abroad every day tor the benefit ot the air. P.

Yesterday being the adjournment of the jeflions of the

peace for the City and Liverty of Westminster ar Weft

minster-hall, when the Hish Constable and al tie Petty

Constables were ordere’ to atrend the Court, Sir John

Gonfon, the Chairman of the Sessions in an excellent,

ufeiul, and instructive {peech, of abour half.an hour, ex-

plained to them the natuie, design and molt extensive

power of their Office, as Constabl:s and in very pathe-

tick words incited them to the due performance of their

duty, in the several branches of it according to their

oaths, &c. Then was read in Covert a Letter directes

to Sir John Gonfon, from the Right Hon. the Lord

Harrington, one of his Majesty’s principal Seerctaries of

Stare, signitying his Majesty s approbation of the pro-

ceedings of the Justices of the Peace of the said City

and Liberty, ia endeivouring to tupprefs Night houses,

Night-cellars, and other disorderly houf s and practices;

and that for encouraging fo good a work, the Soltciror

of the Treasury is ordered to veten’, at his Majestys

expence, the Constables and other Pea ¢ Officers, in any

actions or fuits that may be brought against any of them

for what they shall do in the faithful difcharze of rhe

duty of their Offices, in putting in execution the war-

rants issued to them by the Justices of the Peace for the

purposes aforesaid D.P andD F

The Torch Thistles, which are now flowering at Mr.

Cowel’s at Hoxton, invites every day such crowds of

peonle, andespecially the virtuosi and learned oi the Royal

Society, that it is surprising, as the blossoms are very

extraordinary in their make and colour, and wondertul in

their manner of opening. D. F {: these Torch

Thistles are but as extraordinary in their make, and

wonderful in their manner of opening, as this paragraph |

they may well invite great crowds of people to gape

at them.

WEDNESDAY, Hg. 19. _

Yesterday died iuddenly, at his Lodgings in the Strand,

Mr. Thomas Edwards, who was one of the Gentlemen

of his Majesty's Chappel-Royal at St James's, ever

since the Reign of Kinz William. He was likewise one

of the singing men belonging to Westminster-Abbey

and St. Paul’s. P.; i a

hree {pecial Writs of Enquiry have'pass'd the Great

—. ae

Seal last week, for efiquiring into the Estates of Co’,

Charteris, in Middlesex, Wefimorland and Lancashire,

that have been forfeited to the Crown upon his late Com

viction ani Condemnatior, his Majesty being willing to

assert the Rights of the Crown on that occasion, tho?

he should he graciously pleased to restore them to him

again D. P.

It is written from the Hague, that the Prince Royal

of Prussia inten ed to have visited England, but that hi

detigns are now laid aside; and that the King of Poland

had acceded to the Treaty of seville. Jdid.

About one hundred workmen are employed in build.

ing a house at Wimbleton in Surrey, after the Model of

that of Blenheim in Oxfordshire, iz being eefipn’d, as

we hear, as a present frorn her Grace the Dutchess

Dowager of Marlborough, to one of her Grandsons,

Ibid.

efterday a considerable number of old fmal! arms

were {cent trom the Tower to the Armourcr’s mils, in

order to be cleanied and made fit for his Majesty’s Ser.

vice. And D. F.

Several thousand old {inallarms in the Tower, wh'ch

are unfit for tarther service, are ordered to be disposed

of Jbid.

Laft week died at his Lodgings at Richmond in Surrry

M-. Chambers, a very eminent Pawnbroker in Black.

more firect, Clareemarket, reputed worth 20,000 }, and

yesterday his Corpse was brought to town in a Hearf

with fix Horses, attended with several mourning Coach-

es, and was intefi’d last night in St Clement: Danes

Church. P. -

From the Pegasus in Grub-freet.

WEDNESDAY, Aug. 19.

A Book intitled, 42 Hifforical and Philosophical

Account of the Barometer, or Weather-Glass; by Ed-

ward Saul, A. M. late Fellow of Magdalen Collese, Ox-

ford, aud Refor of Harlaxton, Lincolnfeire, was pre-

tented this evening to the Society, bya Friend of the Au-

thor’s: with a petition to admit the. said Mr. Saul as a

Member of the Society. But it not appearing that this was

more than the second Treatite, which this learned Gen-

tleman has at prefeat published; the Society were of

Opinion, that his election should be defetred till the

publication of another work; which may probably in-

title him to a place in this illustrious body.

The following Epigram was wrote by a young Gentle

man of Eton School; occasion’d by their being ho-

nourd with the Duke’s Company at their Ram-

hunting.

Instruxitque manum Clav’s

Clavigeros inter Pueros, pulcherrima Proles

Arictis in Cladens, Claviger ecce! venit.

Quam placidus sitifque ferit ! Quam parcere pronus

Et nocet, Impavidus ne noceatque, pavet.

Ut clavam, fic arnia geras, hoftemque ferire,

Nec nimium nolis, nec, Guiieime, velis.

Attempted in English.

For the Ram’s Fall, with Club of Oak in Hand,

His Hizhnets comes, and joyns the youthful Band.

Genrly he strikes' tor oh how prone to {pare,

Dauntiefs he hur s: to hurt, is yet his Fear.

Such be thy future Triumph o'er thy Foe,

Tho’ brave, not cruel, and tho calm, nor flow,

Not {paring, nor oo lavifh of thy Blow.

L. M.

FOREIGN NEWS.

THursDay, Aug. 13.

Yesterday arriv’d the Mails due trom France and

Holland.

Naples, Fuly 25. N.S. There are already arriv’d in

this Kinzcom fo great a number of recruits and other

troops fo: Fiume, Triefte, and Lombardy, that the Go-

vernment can fend a considerable army into the field ta

cafe of need, without draining the garrisons; and they

talk of forming a camp of o or :2,00° men between

Capua and Gaeta, the latter end of this month. They

write from Sicily, that they continue to take all the

necessary precautions to oproie a deftent, with woich

that Kingdom is threaten’d; that the troops are poi.

ed in such a manner, that they may get together ata

very short warning; that the garrison of Messina cox-

fitted of 8 co Germans encamp’d near Melazzo; 2

that after the arrival of the troops they e.;cét fro

Germany before the cnd of this month, are arriv’d, th

shall be able to form an army ef 3>,> o men. C.

Leghorn, July 29. N.S. The master of a ship a-

[Page 3.]

riv'd from Palamos in Catalonia, reports, that several

transpor’s, haviog a great number of troops on board,

were arriv’d in the road of Barcelona, trom Cartagena,

Malaga and Alicant. lbid. P D.P.

Milan, Fuly.29- N.S. On the 22d inflant, Count

Daun, ovr Governor-General, recetv’d a Courier from

Vienna, with dispatches for his excellency and the gene-

ral officers, The imperial troops have since receiv’d or-

ders to ‘keep themselves in a readiness to march at a

short warning; and ‘we hear a great detachment is to be

fent towards the frontiers of Piedmont. Recruits are

coming in almost every day from Germany; and we

expect another reinforcement of :2, © menfrom thence.

We are inform’d that Prince Eugene of Savoy will

{peedily come hither to give his orders as Vice-general.

Ibid P. and D. F.

Florence, Fuly 29. N.S. The Great Duke has pub-

lifh’d an ordinance, enjoining all his subjects to seize

the German deserters that may fhelrer them({elves in his

dominions, and fend them back to their officers.

Imperial Troops in the Luregiana have been considerably

reinforc’d: They odferve a very good diicipline there,

and pay for every thing they want P. andD. f.

Vienna, Aug. 5. N.S. General Waterborn is prepa-

ring to fet our for Italy; from whence they write, that

General Philippi, who went some time again to the

Court of Turin, has not been able to do any thing in

favour of the Emperor. *Tis reported here, that the

design of the Spaniards is to possess themselves of Final,

and to endeavour to penetrate into Italy that way; and

that they will mae Corsica a place of arms with this

view. C. P. D.P. and D. F. --- The Daily Pott dates

this Article Fune 5.

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from Holland.

SATURDAY, Aug. 15.

Hague, Aug.22.N S. The Earl ot Cheerfield ar-

rived here on Sunday last, about fix in the Evening. P.

South Carolina, Fune 15. The Spanish Pirates, who

ftyle themselves Guarde Coita’s, having Commission for

that purpose, are very rife in and about the Gulph of

Florida, taking all they can meet with 5 and the French

fettied in Hispaniola, teeing the fuccefg which has attend-

ed the Guarde Cost.’s, are come into the fame way, it

b-ing sufficient cause tor condemnation to be found near

the Coasts of the one or the other, which it is impoffi-

ble to avoid in trading to the Island of Jamaica. The

Charlotte, Ebene er Simmons, Master, coming lately

from Jamaica for this Province, met with a storm of

wind in the windward passage, by which her fails were

{plit; and fhe received fo much damage, as forced her

near the F:ench Coast; for which causea French Sloop

fent ot t , oD reir to the Chevalier dé St.George

and aug”) ented his pension with . - o Crowns a year, it

being before but 12,020 Crowns a year. P > 7

Paris Aug. 23. N.S. ANotary of Rochelle appeal’d

to the arliament here, against the fenrence of the Judge

of that place, whereby he was condennned ro be hang’d

for a very odd fort of acrime. The Notary had a

young fifter, very handsome; aid it happened that arich

Gentleman: passing through Rochelle, fell in love with

her, and off-red to marry her; but being a protestant,

and not willing to abjure his religion, the Norary went

and confesséd himself, in the Gentleman’s name, to a

Friar who did not know him, and took a certificate,

which served his pretended brother-in-'aw to marry his

fifter, and they lived together * years;. but the Gentle-

man being lately dead, the secret came to light; where-

| deration.

thought fit to take and «arty her off 5 and the poor

Matter having found means to efezpe, is just arrived

here, to give an account of his Mistortune. W. E.

and LZ. E.

Extract of a Letter from Petersburg, dated July 28,

O. S.

Yiey will undoubtedly have heard of the country

bereabcuts being in flames in many places, fo]

will acquaint you with what I cam gather from the most

authentick accounts in relation to it.

About a month or |

a

six weeks ago, by some accident, the Brufb Wood and '

dry Grafs some where about Aba in Finland caught on

fire, which spread itself, and has continued travellizg

and increasing ever since, and hath burnt all the way

to Slueyfenburg: At this place we first found the effets

of it about 3 weeks age, by the air's being very hazy,

and full of jmoke, which continues fo, and to fo great

a degree, that very often and generally we cannot fee any

thing balf cross the river, even at noon day. The fame

accident hath happened towards Novogrod, and other

parts of the Country, particularly on the New Road,

where all the loco Brufb Wood and the Grafs that's

dry, and even the Bridzes on the Road, have been burnt

for 60 or 70 Ver/ts together. It hath in its Course

burnt many Villages: Tis now all round the upper part

of this Town, being not above 2 or 3 Versis from the

Monafery on one side, and at Ofa on the other fide the

River. They have dug Ditches round Sifterbeck and

ether Places, to prevent its coming to them, and for

these 10 or 12 days, 2 er 3000 men have been detach'd

to put a stop to it, but bitherto ineffectually: The rea-

Jon of its {preading and continuing, is the exceeding long

dry season we have had, which is such as hath not been

known. E.P. S. F.E. and W. E.

Monpay, Aug. 17.

, Yesterday errived the Mail due trom France, and one

trom Flanders.

Paris, Aug.23.N.S. the Queen hasalready felt some

pains; fo that ‘tis thought her Maycity will lie-in the

latter end of this month, or the beginning of next

C. P. D.P.

upon the Notary was seized, confronted with the Con-

A ll feffor, and condemned to be hanged. But upon his ap-

peal, the Parliament have commuted his punishment to

the making of the Amande honourable, to be branded

> Flower de Lys and vanished. CP. D,P.

Tuesday, Aug. 18,

This Day arriv’d a Mail from Holland.

Naples, Aug.1. All the General Officers and others

have got ready their equipages, and wait only for orders

to take the field; and the Troops design’d for the defence

of ( alabra are all arriv’d in that province. The Empe-

ror has demanded of this Kingdom a free gift of 1,600,000

Florins, to raise which, ways and means are under confi-

B. P. ’

Leghorn, Aug.5. A thip which left Toulon the 2d

instant, advises that the French Troops designed to joyn

those of Spain, lay ready encamped there, and waited

only the last orders to imbark, and that fix Men of War

were also ready to put to fea from thence. Jdid.

Vienna, Aug.12. The Courier which arriv’d here

from Paris the 7th past, brought an answer on the part of

the Allies of Seville, which leaves no more hopes of an

Accommodation. Our new levies are continued with

good success. Jdid.

Paris, Aug.18. The opinions continue divided in’

regard to the projected expedition of Italy : some pretend

it will be deferr’d "till next {pring; and others that it

-will be put in execution this year; but we shall know no-

thing for. certain of this affair ’till the return.of the Cou-

rier that was fent to Cazalha the beginning of this

month, and who is every moment expected with the

final resolution of Spain. Nevertheless it is most certain

that the lait advices fram Cazalha and Barcelona are very

positive, that all that has been reported of the Expediti-

on’s being put off ’till next {pring, was without any mane

ner of foundation. It is advised from Turin of the 8th

of this montk, that the King of Sardinia had been some

days ill of the Strangury. JL. E.

Hague, July 28.

Extract of a private Letter from Vieuna, dated,

July 1.

ON Monday last six Commissaries set out from this

place for Presburg, to confer with Count Palf

about buying up 200,000 bufbels of Wheat, and as many

Oats, in Hungary, to be jent to Naples by the way of

Croatea and Fiume, and laid up in the Magazines of

that Kingdom, to supply the Imperial Troops in the win-

ter, when it is foreseen they would want necessaries, with-

out this timely provision. The Resident of Florence at

this Court has promised the Emperor, in the name and

by order of the great Duke bis Master, to furnish mone

for the quantity of Grain above-mentioned. W.E. P.

Prices of Goods at Bear Key on Monday.

per Quarter per Quarter

Wheat —~24 to 26. | Hog Peas —~ 18 to 20

Ryc -—— 13 to 16 Boiling Peas—-20 to 24

Barley ——~1» to 18 6) Pale Malt — 24 to 28

Oats ——~ 12 to 16 6| BrownMait— z0 to 22 6

Horse Beans 24 to 26) | Tares ————w 20 to 21 6

Coals 24s, to 26s, per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 — 29s. to 368. per Hundred.

Hops 1729 — 398. to §98. per Hundred.

Rape Seed 15]. to 16]. tos. per Laft,

The Course of the Exchange.

Amsterdam 34 7 a 6 Madrid 42 1 8th

Ditto at Sight 34 443 | Bilboa qt 3 4ths

Rotterdam 34 8 a 7 Leghorn 50 7 8ths a 51

Antwerp 35 t Genoa $47 tths

Hamburgh 33 3 Venice 481 4th

Parisat fight 32 1 &th Lisbon 5s. 6d. at 8th

Bourdeaux at fight 32 | Porto ss. 4d. 1 haif

| Cadiz qz 18th Dubin 10 3 8ths

Paris, dug. 22. N.S. Hid Holinest had made a pre- |

; ‘On Tuesday Stocks.were -

. South-Seatoz 7 Sths, 102 ¢ Sths, a : 4ths.. South

Sed Annaity 1081 §th, Bank 144 rt qth. Yadla 14

3 qths, 184.421 8th. Three per Cent, Anduity 96 r

8th. Million Bank 108. African 4.4... York Buildings 19

1 8th, a qth. Royal Assurance (roo |. paid in). 90°

qths, at. London ditto (131. paid in) 121 Sth, |

Rank Circulation 41. 10s. South SeaBondas],.9at08,

India ditto 51. 145, English Copper 31, 108, Welsh

ditto rl. 10 airs. . '

anil Se"

ADVERTISEMENTS.

. This. Day is published. Prd tA

AN Effigy upon Poetry and Peinting, with relation te the Sacred

and Prophane History. With an Appendix concerning Ob-

fcenity in Writing and Painting. :

Ur Pidera Poefs. .

Dabiturque Litentia fumpta pudentar,

Difie docendns athnc cenfet amicalus:

Ut fi Cacus iter monfirare velit, fut i

By Charles Lamote, D. D. F. R. $. Member of the Society of

Anuquaries, and Chaplain to his Grace the. D. of Montague;

printed tor F. Fayram at the South Entrance of the Roydl-Ex- .

change, and J. Leake, Bookfeiles at Bath.

Sn rN

This Day is published,

TH E Rudiments of she Latin Tongue: or a plain and easy in-

troduction to Latin Grammar. Wherein the Pridciples of

the Language are mechodically digested both in Enylith and Latin,

With ufesul Noces and Observations, explaining the Terms of

Grammar, and tutther improving its Rules. By Tho’ Ruddimans

M. A, The Sixth Edition Correéted, Printed, and fold by J.

Clarke, in Duck-Lane, F. Cogan, at the middie Temple-Gate,

Fleetttreet; A- Millar, at Buchanan’s Head, over against Sr. Cle-

ment’s Church, in the Strand; and S. Palmer and J. Huggonfoo

Printers in Bartholumew-Clole. 17,0.

Lately Publish’d the Third and Fourth Volumes of

THE MUSICAL MISCELLANY? Being 8 Collection

of Choice Sexes and Lyaicnx Pozms: Wich the Bailes to

each Tune, and transpoled for the Flute, By the most eminent

afters.

" Musick’s the Cordial of a troubled Breast,

The fofteft Remedy that Grief can find ;

The gentle Spell that charms ovr @a es to Rest;

And calms the ruffling Patlions ot che Mind.

Printed by and for J. Wars, atthe Printing Office if Wild-

Court near Lincoln’s-Inn Fields, and fold by the Booksellers boch

of Town and Country. Of whom may 6b: had che First and

Sesond Volumes. ,

N. B. The Fitth and Sixth Volumes, which will finith this

Colle&ion, being iu che Press, and in such Forwardnets, chac ic

will be finish’d in one Month trom this Time, therefore all Gen-

tlemen and Ladies who afe willing co contribute any Choice -

Sow@s, ate desired to fend chem as soon as possible, directed for

Jonx WATTs, at che Priming-Ofhce in Wild-Court near Lin-

coln’s-Lon Fields, and Care will be taken to have chem fet to

Mulick. ;

This day ls published, .

(The second Edition “— and oy with large Additiond

y the Author . ,

Compendious and methodical Account of the Principlesot

A Natural Philosophy, as explained and illustrated in the feve-

ral Courfes oj Experiments performed at the Academy ia Little

Tower-street. By Benny. Woasten, A.M. .

Printed tor Sraeuew Avsrex, at the Angel and Bible in St.

Paul's Church-yard. In 8vo, Price 48 6d.

Where may be had, ‘

I. A General System ot Hydroltaticks and Hydraulicks, Philofo-

phical aad Practical, illustrated and explained by so large Coppet

Plates. In 2 Vols. 4to. Price 11. tos. ;

II. The Works of the Right Reverend George Butt, D. D,

concerning the Holy Trinity, &c. In 2 Vols. 8vo. Price 10 5.

Where may be had, :

Ill. The FemMace Puysician, containing all the Diseases in-

cident to that Sex, in Virgins, Wives and Widows; ¢ gether with

their causes and Symptoms, their Degrees of Danger, avd res

foeive Methods of Prevention and Cure. To which is added,

whole Art oi New improved M dwitety 5 comprehend) the

necessary Qualifications of a Midwite, and particular Directions

for laying Women in “ — + puree in

ith ¢ et an egimen o

etaes ee ten i 8vo. Price 5s.

and Child. By Jou* Mowsnar, M. D.

This Day is Published, Price 6d.

PHILOSOPHIZA MATHEMATICA NEWTONIANGA Iitu-

P fttate. Tomi Doo.” Quorum prior tradic Elementa Mathe4

feos ad comprehendendam demonstrationem hujus Philosophiz

{cic necessaria: Pofterior continet 1) Detniciones & Leges

motus generaliores; 2) Leges virium centripetarum & Theoriam

attra@tionis feu gravicationis corporum in fe mutuo;.3) Mundi

Systema. A Groxcio Perro Domckio. |

Suniptibus Tho Meighan, Bibliopole in Vico Drury-lane, &

Jer. Bacley, tub Signo Colambz, im Vico Pater-nofter Row.

[Page 4.]

This Day is publist’ds (Price 62.)

Nate Answer wo. a Rabinical Letter,

rae Lo Br. Wooo William Gardiner, L. L. b.

amb: con in «He of Rutland,

. piieical Lik of aibers fot the better regulating

es. Conttivdim tuch a’ ete ee gener

3, knows hes Letcers, may keep the Books in' order, and

| “ede ihenat i jolt or niflaid, well ashis Master. Price2s 6d.

| 2" Boe prined ‘br Beroard Lintot at the Ciofs Keys between the

Temp:€vare in Fleet-street. |

Jolt publish’d, The Second Edition of

S ERMONS on the following Subjects. By SAMUEL CLARKE;

-D. late Re&tor of St. James's, Westminster, published from

the~Aasher’s Ms. by John Clarke, D. D. Dean of Saram; witha

Preface giving some Account of the Lite, Writings and Character

of the Anther, by Bexyamix Lord Bishop of SALIsBuaY. Ip

a Vols.

Vol. T. Vel. If.

Of Faith in God. Of the Glory of God.

Of the Unity ot God. Of God’s being the Father of

Of the Eternity of God. Ma: kind,

Of the Spiricualiny of God, | Of being the Children of God.

Of the Immutability of God. Ot loving God.

Ot the Omniprelence of God. Ot the Fear of God. ws

Ot the Omniporence of God. Of the wisdom ctf being Religi-

Of the Omnilcience of God. ous.

Ot the wisdom of God. Of imitating the Holiness of God.

Of the Goodtels of God. Of the Love ot God tuwards Sin-

Of the Patience of God. ners.

Of the Justice ot God. Ot Believing in God.

Of the Grace of God.

Oi the Kingdom of God.

Printed for J. and J. Knapton at the Crown in St. Paul’s

Church-yard.

Where may be had,

The Second Edition of Dr. Cuanxke’s Exposition of the Church

Cathechism, and all che Works of Dr. CLARKE.

This Day is published,

The Fifth Edition {with great Additions and Amendments) of

D®- R4DCLIFFE’s Paacticar Disrexsaroxy: Contain

ing a Compleat Body of ’nEscRiPrions, fiuted for all Dif-

eafes Internal and External, digested under proper Heads; {elected

- From various Authors. 11. From the belt Prescriptions, chiefly

ufea by Dr. Radexirre, in Latin and English, regularly placed

Under each Curollary. 111 An exa& Caralogue of all the Pre-

criprions, recited in the late and present Londox, Ba‘res’s, and

Furvex’s Dispeniatories: With Remarks and Observarions ex-

plaing the Vigrucs and right Application oj each Recipe. By Ep.

Sraoruer, M.D. f :

Prin ed for C. Rivinoror at the Bible and Crown in St, Paul’s

Chusch-yard, Price 5s. 6d.

, Where also may be had, os

I, Dr.Staotuea’s Essay on Sickness and Health. 2d Edition,

Price 5. 6d.

I}. --- Critical Essay on Fevers, 2d Edit, Price 3 s. 6d.

Ul. ---Evonta: Or, A Discourse on causes and Cures. 2d

Edit. Price 38. 6d.

1V. o-- Experienc’d Measures how to manage the Small Pox.

rice 28.

_ Va e» Pharmacopoeia Practica. Price 46

VI. --+ Practical Observations on the late Epidemical Fever.

Price 23% 6d. '

Vi. Marenia MEDICA: Or, A new Description of the

Virtues and Etfeéts of all Drugs, or Simple Medicines, now in

_ Use: To which is prefixed, A General Introdu@ion, containing

@ mechanica] Account of the Operations ot all Medicines upon Hu-

a Bodies. By E. Staxotusrx, M.D. In Two Volumes.

rice 108,

ion te |

And {pedily be published. ,

T HE Lifeof MOHAMED. Translated frofn the

Frinch of the Count of Bonlainvilhers, Author of

| ‘Fue pretent State of France, and che historical Memoirs

thereto subjoin’d. Fa

in : _— ri —

THE tollowing Plays are to be fold at Mr. John Osborn’s at

Dock-hvad, near Horflydown, and at F. Cogan’s at che Mid-

dle Tempie-gaie.

Spartan Dame

Plays in Quarto. Enyiith Chevalier

Scornful Lady Whig and Tory

Wit without Money Invader of his Country

Spanish Curate Artful Wife

alentinian. Chances Antiochus

Custom of the Country Love and Liberty

Whe for a Month Rival Generals

Wit at several Weapons Roman A@urs

Coxcomb. Bonduca

Bloody Brothers

Maid’s Tragedy

Woman: Hater

Humorous Lieutenan

Love lies a Bleeding

Double Marriage

Faults on both Sides

Love in a Forest

Louery. Sultaness

Henry VI. Edwia

Fall ot Saguntum

Kemale Fop

Female Paifon

Island Princess Henry V. Revenge

Loyal Subje& Hibernia Freed

Love’s Cure Fatal Legacy

Prophetefs. Pilgrim Capricious Lovers

Rule a Wife, and Bavé aWife | Lady's Philosophy

Beggar’s Bush

Metin the Mill

All these by Beaumont and

Fletcher

Artful Husband

Jane Gray

Governor of Cyprus

Perfidious Brother

Liberty asserted

Scowerers. Virtuoso

Duke of Guile

Massacre of Paris

L»obe’s Paradise

French Puritan

Perplex'd Lovers

Love in a Wood

Junius Brutus

Epsom Wells

Plays in Twelves

Sir Walter Raleigh

Perpl x’a Couple

Country Wite

Don Sebatti n

London Cucxolds

Love in a Sack

App itition

Bois Stroke for a Wife

Heroick Daughter

Noah's Flood

Baller Fable

injured Virtue

Scipio Atricanus

Peiucoat Plotter

Slips Clouds

Britannicus and Alexander

Injur’d Love World’s Idol

Philosophy no Deféenec against | Litigans. Viaim

Love Persian Princess

Persian Princes Richmond Heirefs

Cheats. Ulysses Tottenham Court

Amorous Bigot Half Pay Officers

Perolla and Ifadora Cuckolds make themselves

awe

Arfinoe, Queen of Cyprus Achaliah

False Friend Wee to be Lert

Woman’s Wir She Gallant

Perfidious Brther

Lady’s Triumph

Woman's a Riddle

Plays in O&avo

Imperial Captives

Kensington Gardens

Czfar in &

Henty lV. of France

Where may be had great Variery of Novels Price 6d. each.

Briton

Duke of Gloucester

This Week will be publish’d,

A nw Edition, neatly printed in 12mo. of

H E Works ot Mr, William Congreve. In three Vo-

lumes, Confifting of his Plays and Poems. Printed

4 j. Tain in the Swand, Where likewise may be had,

Dill 1 9

The Second Edition of Mr. Addison’s Works, in 4 Vols.

qto. With compleat Indexes. pe

— His Evidence of the Christian Religion, &c. in 12mo.

The Second Ty of Dr. Mandeville’s 1 reatife of Hy-

hondriack and Hyfterick Diseases. Corre€ted and en-

“d

Siuckford’s Connection of the sacred and prophane Hi-

fiory. In two Vols. 8vo,

The Second Edition of Fontenell’s Dialogucs of the Dead.

Translate: from the French by the late John Hughes, Esq;

Milton's Paradise loft and regain’d, in 2 Vols Svo.

The Seventh Edition of Echard’s Kcclefiattical History,

two Volumes, 8vo.

oe Tenth Edition of Pridcaux’s Connection, in 4 Vols.

Wirth Curs an: Maps, 8vo.

BUOKS prined and fold b

Bible next rhe three Tun

Joim Brotherton at the

avern in Cornhill.

on’s Work$, 4 Vol. | King’s H. Gods.

oy’ m4 Blat’s Sermons, § Vol-8vo.

Gay’s Fables. Gordon’s Geog. Grammar,

Mandevill’s Free Thoughts } Plutarch’s Lis es,8 Vol. 8vo.

wee Ditto Fable of the Bees, | Milton’s Paradise Toft.

2 Vol. Ditto regain’d.

——DirtoVirgin unmask’d. | Clarendon’s History, 6 Vol.

aie Hypochondriack | Guardians, 2 Vol.

Boyer’s Telemachus, 2 Vol. | Cooke's Detettion, 3 Vol.

Pilgrim’s Progress. | Pojleau Oeuvre Poetique.

Musical Dictionary. Colle€tion of N ovels.

Buckingham’s Works, 2 Vol. | Shakespear sPlays.

Royer’s Di€tienar abride'd. Ovid’s Epistles.

Pope's Homer's Titiad, 6 ol Ditro Art of Love.

—— Ditto Odyfy's, 5 Vol. | Abelard’s Letters.

This Day is published

By Mr. Cowell of Hoxton ¢wherzin &@ Description of

the beauitul Torch-Tii.ftles now in the Bloffoin; and

also of his great American Aloc)

oS Seve and profitable GAR DEN ER;; con-

aining,

[. The most useful Experiments for impr: ving Land

by Grain and Seeds, Eleven curious Di eftions fo

cultivating the choiceft Fruits of the Eait and Weft In-

“ 5 ~— Expence,

rao dinary Remarks concerning the raising 0:

Flowers from Seed. oe .

\V. Particula: Observations and Rules for the Manage-

ment of Dwarf Fruit-Trees, Wall-Trees, Eipalicrs and

Standards; with a new methid of rend ing them more

ornamental and profitable than $s commonly pra€ti{cd,

Printed for Weaver Bickerton in Deverece Cow t, near

the Middle-Temple,

+ Of whom may be had

I. A mechanical Essay upon the HEART, in three

Anatomical Lectures. Wherein the Heart is demon-

{trated to be a compleat Epitome of Myology in general,

0 : ay and particular Iluitration of its compounded

ufcles.

Il. The Onigineand Nature of the BLOOD, with an

exact Description of its Circulation, deduced trom the

Force and Elasticity of a Fibre, from the Situation and

Construction of che Veins and Arterics, and from the fta-

ted Principle of Mechanicks.

III. The Preternatural State of that Fluid, and how

to restore it, when possible, to its natural Crafis again,

as Deliver’d in the Amphitheatre of the Royal College

of Physicians, London. By William Wood, M.D. Fellow

of the said College.

IV. Persian Anccdotes, or secret Memai:s of the Court

of Persia. Written originally in French, tor the Enter-

tainment of the King. By Mada de Gomez, Author

of Le Belle Assemblce-

This Day is Publish'd.

Which is one af the Reasons the publick Commencement at Dublir. mas

mt of.

HE CENSORIAD. A eh Written originally by Mar.

tin Galiiver. Hiuttrated with sundry curious Annoraiogs

ot diversleaiaed Commentat ts, Scholiafts and Critics.

—Felicia Tempera qua te

Morbus opponunt. Juv.

—Thou Vermin wretched

As e’cr in meafl d Pork washatched,

Th: u Tail ot Worthip chat doelt grow

On Kump oj Justice +s on Cow.

Printed for the Booksellers of London.

Of whom also may be had,

I, A View of the present State ot Affairs in the Kingdom of

Ireland, C: nta ning, A Lift of Absenters of that Kingdom, and

Answer. Also a Mocett P opoial tor prevenung the Children of

| poor People from being a Burchen to their Parents or the Coun

and for making them beneficial to the Publick. By Dr.S-

os The Batchelor’s Estimate of che Expencesof a manigd

Life.

I}. The Married Man’s Answer to the Batchelor’s Estimace.

IV. The Batchelor’s Reply to the Married Man, or none but

Fools mar:y.

V. New Refic&ions on the Female Sex. Written by the

Marchioneis ae Lambert, and tranflaced by Mr. Lockman.

uy,

Just arrived,

A Fresh Parcel of right French Hungary Water; also a Parcel of

rizht Lavender Waer, at Lake's blower of Multaid-Seed

ard Hungary Water Warehouse, at the Three Kings and Half

Moon on Ludgate hill, next the Gate, Right French Hungary-wa-

ter, Price 1s. 3d. the half Pint. To prevent Counerteics, the

Three ings ave pafted on each Botilee

Also a Parcel of right Lavender-water, being exceeding fine fla~

voured, now in great Esteem with the best ot Quality; the U&

and Virtues are the some as che Hungary Water, Price is, 3d,

the Bottle. The R yai Chymical Wath Bulls, tor beautitying the

Skin, Price 6d. Av incomparable Tooth-Pewder, which makes

the rouleft Teeth as white asIvory, Price 6d. the Box. Right

| Orange Fiower Wacer at 1 5. the Bole. The King’s Honey Wa-

ter, the highly esteemed Lip-Salve, also the best Scotch Snuff, and

all o ber Snuffs, iold wholeiale and retail: Also a fne Imperial

. Snuff, prepared ior the Heaa and Eyes, at 6d. per Ounce. The

new Invenrea Chamber Lamps, Price 2s. each Lamp. Also isto

be fold, whvlefale and retail, the true Daffy’s Elixir: and DeGos

Godtrey’s General Cordial, and Dr. Stoushion’s Grand Cordial

' Elixir tor the Stomach.

The Tiue Original Flower of MusTARD-SEED, prepared and

{fold wholesale and retail, in6d. and 3d. Botues. Good Allows

ance will be given to ali Merchants, Commanders of Ships, Shup-

keepers and others, who take Quantities to fell again. Beware of.

Counterteits, who daily offer their Rubbish abouc Town tor Sale:

To prevent such Impoftions, that the Publick may not be impo-

fed on, each Bottle, far. or Parcel of Flower of Mustard-Seed of

mine, is fealed with my Name, Thomas Lake, round the Seal, al-

} fo the King’sArms, wich my Name, patted on each Bottle.

The Flower is to be fuld at mott Coffee-houses and Shup-keep-

ers in London, aud in most Cities and Market-Towns in Great

Brita} Ue

Dr. GODFREY’s General Cordial,

| So universally — of for the Cholick, and ali manner

of Pains in the Bowe's, Fiuxes, Kheumatifims, and Rest-

leffneis in Men, and Women; and more particularly for

th: Relief of young Children in the breecing their Teeth,

S fold in moit Citics, Boroughs, and Market-Towns

I throughout Great-Britain and Ireland ,; remov’d from

tiunidon to Broxborn in Herttordshire : And ior the Con-

veniency of supplying all these parts, there are established

by me BENJAMIN GODFKEY these following

Wholeiale Warehous s, viz.

lohn Wefilake’s in Queen-street, Briftols

Peter Leadbeater’s, Diitiller, in Weft Chesters

Mr. Button’s, Boukfeller, on the Bridge at Newcastle

upon Tyne ;

Mr. Brooke’s, Distiller, on the Blind-key, Dublin.

As alfoatm Original Warehouse in Bishopsgate-street,

London Q '

Any reputable Shop-keeper in any City, Borough, or

Market-Town, where this Medicine is not already fold,

may be supply d atany of the said Warehouses with good

Allowance

N. B. The Publick are desired to take Notice, (to pre-

vent being imposed on) that there is anil minded Pertoa

who counterfeits the said Medicine, and puts the Title of God-

frey’s Cordial on the top of the Bottles, and in his Bills given

with the Bottles, he calls it The GENERAL COK-

DIAL, and does not pat the Person’s Name who prepares

it; but as this Counterfeic Maker is now found out by

his own Confession, he and his Sellers will be prosecuted

as the Law directs (as Impcftors): And to prevent the

Buyers from being impos’d on, I have put my Christian Name on the Top of each Bottle, which is prepared

By me Benjamin Godfrey, M.D.

The price of each Bottle is 6 d.

For the Benefit of those who are afflicted with the

DROPSY,

Elizabeth Knell, who lives next Door to the Baker and Basket in Middle-street, Cloth-fair, near West-smithfield,

STILL continues to perform great Cures in the said Distemper, on both Sexes, and all Ages.

N. B. An Account may be had of several Cures at the Place aforesaid.

LONDON: Printed by Mr. Moore, for Captain Gulliver, near the Temple, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in.

[Price Two Pence.]

