The Grub-street Journal.

Numb. 34.

Thursday, AUGUST 27, 1730.

An account of a book intitled Historical

Memoirs of the Life of Dr. Samuel Clarke,

by Will. Whiflon, M. A

_ Ne quid falfi dicere audeat;

Ne quid veri non audeat.

£%R. Whifton having observed that Dr.

) Sykes, Bishop Hoadly, and others, had

Mf published accounts of Dr. Clarke’s life,

x [Sem writing and character, with many par-

AIG ticulars, of which he took himself to

n2 SE PSE® be better acquainted than any of them,

thought it 2 Duty incumbent on him to

add these Memoirs, with such faithfule/s and impar-

tiality, such openne/s and simplicity as those important

concerns do require.

Our Author’s first acquaintance with the Dr. was in

the year 1697, while the former was Chaplain to Dr.

Moor, then Bishop of Nerwich, to whose favour and

friendship he had the opportunity of first introducing

him. He resigned his place of Chaplain to him the

next year, having the living of Loweftoft in Suffolk

given him by his Patron. Our Author here digrefles to

acquaint the Reader with ‘a strange incident, that hap-

‘ pened at Leweftoft when Dr. Clarke came once thi-

‘ther to fee him; which they never forgot, and he

‘ thinks ought to be mentioned here for publick infor-

‘ mation. They went together a-board one of the

‘ small Ships belonging to that Town: and as they

« were on Ship-board, they took notice of two of the

¢ Seamen that were jointly lifting up a vessel out of

¢ the hold: when another Seaman that stood vy, clapped

* oneof them on the fioulder, andasked him, why he

¢ did not turn his face away ? (for he was looking down,

¢ asif he would fee what he and his fellow were lifting

* out of the hold, as well as joined in lifting it up. )

* Upon which he turned his face away 3 but con-

© tinued to assist in lifting it up notwithstanding. The

¢ meaning of which they soon understood to be this;

¢ that he would be obliged to swear he /aw nothing

* taken out of the hold; not that he took nothing out

* of it. This, Mr. Whifton observes, is the consequence

‘ of our multiplying oaths on every trifling occasion!

‘and this, fays he, it seems, is a Seaman’s falvo for

* such errant perjury!

In the year 1714 the Convocation fell upon Dr.

Clarke's [cripture doétrine of the Trinity; for an authen-

tick account of which, Mr. Whitton refers us to an Apology

for Dr. Clarke, published thisyear. Our Author, in this

affair, charges Dr. Clarke with insince rity; and fays, it’s

end was unhappy to Dr. Clarke's own conscience 3 unhappy

to bis best friends; and, above all, unbap y as to its con.

Sequence in relation to the opinion the Unbelievers were

willing bereupon to entertain of him, as if he had pre-

varicated all along in his former writings for Chri-

ftianity. He mentions one in particular, whom he

Calls a fagacious unbeliever, who said, that ‘he and

* other observing Infidels, his brethren, did think, both

* from his life and writings, that he had really believed

* Christianity; that is, till the Convocation fell upon

‘him. But since his prevaricating behaviour at that

* time of trial, they concluded he did not believe it.

This conclusion Mr. Whifton thinks too ba/fy, and fays,

that be did by degrees recover part of bis former cha-

rafter; and not only shewed evident signs of being

diffatisfied with what he had done, but refu/ed a//o a

Lay Employment of 1200 /. or 15007. a year, because

it was not agreeable to his spiritual cures by which

he appeared in earnest to believe the Christian Religion

to bis death.

_ P. 86. Our Author relates many particulars concerne

ing a Society for promoting primitive Christianity the

Chairmen of which were three: . Dr. Fobn Gale,

from Fuly.3, 1715. when they first met, tilt Feb. 10,

1715. 2. Mr. Arthur Onslow, from Feb.17, 171 .. tid

Dec. 28, 1716. 3. Mr. Thomas Emlyn, from Jan. 4,

W715, till June 28,1717, which was the laff day of

their meeting: and Mr. Whifton ger ig A officiated all

the while as their Secretary. He tells us, he has pre-

_ a manner.

Served the minutes of this Society with no less exafne/s,

than thofa of any Court in this kingdoms as be takes

them to be of greater consequence than any of them.

P. 135. Mr. Whifton here enters into the particulars

of Dr. Clarke’s refusal of the lay employment menti-

oned before; and on this occasion makes a foort, and,

as he thinks not unseasonable Digreffion, to tell us, that

‘ it is clearly his opinion, that till our Defenders of

‘ Christianity do more than they have most of them

‘ hitherto done, as to the affording the world this con-

‘ viction, that they are really in carne themselves;

particularly, till our Bishops leave off procuring come

‘ mendams, and heaping up riches and preferments on

* themselves, their Relations and Favourites: nay, till

‘ they correct their non-residence, till they leave the

‘ Court, the Parliament, and their Pcliticks, and go

‘ down to their several Diocefes, and there /abour in

‘ the Vineyard of Christ, instead of standing the molt

‘ part of the day id/e at the Metropolis: ‘They may

‘ write what learned Vindications, and Pafforal Letters

‘ they please, the observing unbelievers will not be fa-

‘ tisfied they are in earneff, and, by consequence, will

‘ be little moved, by all their Arguments and Exhor-

* tations.

‘ And here (fays our Author) I cannot but won-

der, how Bishop Hoadley can himself fo distinétly

take notice, to the honour of Dr. Clarke, that he

was almost constantly resident upon his cure, without

the bittereft refle€tion on his own different conduct.

Since every body acquainted with him knows, that

since he has been Bishop of Hereford and Salisbury,

he has not only, like some other Bishops, been much

the greatest part of his time at London; but that du-

ring .he 6 years time he was Bishop of Bangor, and

passed through the entire Bangorian Controversy, he

went beyond the example of other Bishops, and ne-

ver once fet his foot within the Diocese of Bangor.

The Bishop may also please to remember, that when

he had absented himself from his Diocese 3 or 4 of

those years, and I had proportionably withdrawn my

self from my wonted acquaintance with him, I fent him

a friendly, very gentle Admonition to this effect;

that I desired to receive from him a letter under bis

own band, dated at Banger. ‘To which meflage he

returned me this answer, by the fame hand that car-

ried it: That be should be glad to fee me at Bangor,

the next year: Whither yet he did not go that year,

nor any other. I beg of him, that he will consider

what the Apostles have ordained in their 37th and

38th Canons, which belong to such grofs negligence;

viz. that if any Bishop that is ordained does nob un-

dertake bis office, nor take care of the people commit-

ted to him, be is to be suspended until be does under-

take it. —— And that a Bishop who takes no care of

the clergy or people, and does not infiruct them in

‘ piety, is to be separateds and if he continue in bis

‘ negligence, is to be deprived.’ 1 am mighty sorry

to find Mr. Whifton ufe such bitter inveétives against

this excellent Prelate, whose conduét, I am persuaded

can have given him no just reason to treat him in such

Yet this is not the only part of the book

now under my consideration, which is openly levelled

against his charaéter. In P. 116. he charges him with

acting inconsistently with bis own Notion of Liberty o

Conscience, and that Christ an Freedom, of which be

has always appeared the strongest Advocate. And again,

in P. 4 he has these words; * When the Bishop

* fays, that the Charity of Dr. Clarke's Assistance and

‘ Beneficence was as extensive as the circumstances of

‘ bis Family would prudently admit: And afterwards,

‘ that be had not in him the---love of Riches strong enough

to make him uneasy for any thing more than what

afforded him and his Family a decent eS tan and

Place in Life: This may be true in the Bishop’s opi-

nion; who, with many of his Brethren, by twice

changing his Bishoprick for a better, contrary to an

Apottolical canon, and by raising an estate out of

his Ecclesiastical Revenues, contrary both to the Apo-

stolical Constitutions and Canons, seems to be of opi-

nion, that the Circum/fances of Bifhons and Presbytcre

families ought to be not tmall, and their decent Af pear-

annananananann a

ance in life very great under Chyiftianity.’ Me en-

—— = a

deavours indeed to mollify this severe charge, by grant~

ing that the Bibop is not singular in this, but that the

behaviour of most of the Bifbeps and Presbyters makes it

too evident, that whatever sentiments they may bave in

theory, or may preach out of the pulpit, yet their nos

tion for practise is with the Bishop in these matters.

P. 142. Mr. Whifton finds great fault with Dr.

Clarke for his celebrated Edition of the twelve first

Books of Homer’s Iliad, thinking that fe /eemed therea

by to desert the fiudies of bis own profeffionm, and” pres

Ser profane Authors, at a time when there was parti

ticular occasion for the most able of the Clergy to en-

gage in divine fiudies: and adds, that ‘ if once fitch

* as these would be themselves in earnef in Christiani«

‘ ty, and would in earnef fall to this great work, the

* Collinfes, the Tindals, the To/ands, and the Woo].

‘ ftons, would soon become contemptible. To observe,

* fays he, such Laymen as Grotius and Newton and

‘ Lock laying out their noblest Talents in sacred{Stu-

* dies; while such Clergymen as Dr. Bent/ey, and

‘ Bishop Hare, to name no others at present, have been,

in the words of Sir J/aae Newton, fighting with one

another about a Play-book (Terence}. ‘This is a

reproach upon them, their holy Religion, and holy

* Funétion, plainly intolerable. Bavius.

o a “a

To Mr. Bavius, Secretary to the Grub-street Society.

SIR,

ME-Prvden’s Complement toMi/tonis an old thought,

v4 though improved by that great Man; as most

things were, that he borrowed. The Copy of it (in

your last Journa!) would have kept closer co the Ori

ginal, if it had been thus;

Three Poets (grave divines) in England orn,

The Prince’s Entry did with Verse adorn.

The first in lowline/s of Thought jurpajs'd,

The next in Bombafts and in both the laf.

Dutness no more cou’d for ber LaurgEAT do,

To perfec? bim, fhe join'd the former two.

After this liberty taken with your Epizram, allow

me further to tell you, that I cannot think the Lay-

reat rightly qualify’d to be a Member of your Society.

He has done some things not unbecoming his Pott:

And his long-promis’d Translation of Ta/2, 1s with im-

patience expected by the Lovers of the .viules.

Chelsea, 21 Your humble servant,

Aug. 1730. D. M.

I agree with my learned Correspondent, that the Lay-

reat has done some things not unbecoming bis Poff, wit-

nefis his new year Ode, on which 1 published an ela:

borate Criticism in our second Journal. B vivus.

Oxon, Aug. the 18th,

To the Author of the Grubefticet Journal,

SIR,

| pee I desire you to insert the following Verses

in your Papers I must acquaint you, that I am

ot a constitution exceedingly tender, and though I don’t

Jabour under such a valetuainary state of health, as to

be fenlible of much inconvenience trom a change of

climate, weather, or diets yet any discord in musick,

bad poetry, or the likes has a very sensible effect on me,

Now there is a gentleman, who has frequently within

these two or three years past, given me very great

disturbance in this way, to the great prejudice of my

health: I would not have you imagige however that

mine is a particular cafe, since the complaint I do assure

you is very general: | mutt therefore desire you would

iniert the fo lowing lines in your paper, which are di-

rected to the abovemention’d gentleman, for the fake of

a great many sufferers, and in particular of

your constant Reader and

Humble Servant

PHILosusts.

On the Author of the verses on the death of Mr, John

Philipps.

Philipps ! to thy lamented shade,

By some vile scribling poet

A tribzte of du'l verie is paid,

Who swears that friendship made him do it.

[Page 2.]

ee a PS OT ET AL IT TT

- om yo es oa oe

oa _ ie eas ates

I tho ghtit necessary to reprint those which were the oc-

casion of therm, as I fiad them in the Whitehall Evening

te

Pie Saget

ge 2 ie

ie

Sr) a

2

This fore the Power of Jove declares:

On our dull verte inditer;

In ipite of nature ang his stars,

His friensship has made him a writer;

Dear shade the Scriblers with fulfil,

(His Birb’rous toil requiting)

K ep him trom each difaftrous ill,

But most.of all from writing.

_For the betrer understanding of the foregoing verses,

Pott of Aug. 13.

Oxon. Aug. 6, 1730.

To the Author of the Wuirenaty Evenine Post.

SIR,

F. you think proper to insert the following Copy of

Verses wrote by a friend of the deceased, they are

very much at your service.

y To the Memory of his dear friend,

Yours, &c.

FJOHN PHILLIPS, Esq

Quis defiderio fit Pudor aut Modus

Jam chari Capitis ? Hor

\ HAT is he gone? Whither fo sudden flown?

Why droop’d the Flow’r, e’er it was fully blown?

Oh! had he never been, or longer itaid,

The Youth not known, w’had not wept o’er the Shade,

Or having long enjoy’d, had long been happy made.

In Conversation none more gay than he,

Seas’nably gay, and innocently free 5

True to his Friend, and faithful to his Trust,

In every Word and Action good and jutt.

His Looks were to his Mind fo near a-kin,

They shew’d without, the Mind's Designs within 5

They with his Actions did fo well con{pire,

That seen, you'd like him 3 having known, adimire.

Let me at leait be fufer’d to commend,

Who've the Companion known, and tried the Friend:

Nor wonder he in Blooin of Youth shou’d die,

E’er Manhood, he was ripe for an Eternity.

If ’tis permitt:d thee on Earth to bend r

Thy Eyes, and human Actions to attend,

Oh! deign to guide the Actions of thy Friend. 5s

This Offering accept for Friendfip take,

Tho’ imall, ’till All is granted me to make.

By J. A. an intimate Friend of the Deceased.

LONDON.

THURSDAY, Aug. 20.

Mrs. Twwifleton, the gentlewoman mentioned in our

paper of monday for her benevolence to S. Bartholomew’s

hospital, has deposited 1000 |. also in the hands of the

Corporation of Clergyrnens Sons, upon the fame terms

as then specified with the said hospital. P.

Yesterday Mr. Lynch and Mr. Murphy, 2 [rish Gen-

tlemen, students of the temple, quarrelled and fought a

duel at Chiswick, wherein the former was killed: ‘Vhe

latter is taken into custody. D. fF.

A few days ago Andrew Dalton, alias Dawson, alias

Dolard, alias Smith, was apprehended at a house in

Green-Arbour Court, and committed to Newgate by

Sir William Billers, for robbing Mr. John Rawlins, Mer-

chant of this City, of a horse, bridle, and faddle, &c.

He proves to be a person who lately itood in the pillory

for defrauding the keeper of S. James's Coffee-houte of a

uantity of tea and arrack, by a forged letter in the name

of Sir William Sanderion. /d/d.

Fripday, Aug. 21.

Yesterday the Rev. Dr. Crefwick kified his Majesty’s

hind at Wind(or, on his being appointed Dean of Brito,

in the.room of the Rev. Dr. Booth, lately deceased. P.

Yesterday Samuel Underhill, Eig; Mr. Robert Hall,

and Mr. Richard Bridgeman were approved Governors

of S. Bartholomew’s hospital, having been lately nomi-

nated for that purpose. did.

Capt. Edward Vernon, Member of Parliament for the

borough of Penryn in Cornwall, is made one of the De-

paty-Lieutenants of the City of London and Weitmin-

fter, under his Grace the Duke of Newcastle, Lord Lieu-

tenant of the said City.and Liberty. J¢id.

broke-hall to the reverend and learned Dy.

juxta Mare in

We hear from Cambridge, that Dr. Hawkins of Pen-

fans in Cornwall has resigned his Master-ship of Pem-

ong, who

was formerly his tutor, and fellow of that College; and

tuity of his great living"of Bradwell{

Tex upon the said’College, relervang on-_

jy to himself the right of the firit presentation, in favour

f Mr. Jefferies, onéof the prefertt senior Fellows. DF

ent speed, the

SATURDAY, Aig. 22.

By a Courier which arrived yesterday rhorning from

France we have advice, that her Majesty was safely

delivered of a Prince; Duke of Burgundy, as being fe-

cond Son of the royal blood; and that her Majesty was

as well as could be expeéted for one in her condition,

great rejoycings being made throughout the Kingdom

on this occasion. C. —— The Gazette cal/s him Duke

d’ Anjou.

On sunday last Edward Edlin, Efq3 kifled his Ma-

jesty’s hand, on his being appointed Lord Chief Baron

of the Court of Exchequer in Scotland, in the room of

Mr. Sergeant Miller, deceased. P.

Laft week the rev. and learned Dr. Waterland was

collated to the Archdeaconry of Middlesex, by the Lord

Bishop of London, whose Son, as we are well informed,

is designed for the Vicarage of Kensington, as soon as

he shall be of full age for it. D. 7.

On thurfday last Sir John Gonfon, and 10 or 12

others of his Majesty’s Justices of the Peace for the

City and Liberty of Westminster, met at Covent-garden

veltry, and bound over to the Sessions several persons for

keeping disorderly night-houses in and about Drury-lane

and Covent-garden, and also issued out warrants against

several others. P.

Yesterday Mr. Sutton the prize-fighter was taken into

custody, and carried to the county gaol of Surrey, for

desperatcly wounding several women in the Mint with

his sword, and in particular one woman, who has re-

ceived a dangerous woun] in her thigh. D F.—~—

On reading this paragraph, I could not forbear looke

ing over the Annals of our Society, and in the Vaily Post

of the 19th instant found the following Axjwer to Mr.

rex Mac-Guire, the most noted and iucce‘s:ul Cham-

pion of the Kinz !on of Trecn’, who never yet knew

the scandal of a aefeat. I Evwarp SuTron, renowned

Champion of invincible Kent, to whose arms proud to-

reigners haveretigned the prize, and toe. domellick paid

{ubmission, doubt not but it wi!l be the fate of this

Adamantine ileroe, who has said fo much of nimie:t,

there is little room left for me to fay anything. I was

in hopes fo many of his worded Countrymea had teit

my fury, that it might have restrained the rest, and the

catalogue of their mighties had been at an eid; but as

the Mufhreoms are said to breed in a shower of rain,

and come to matuiity in afingle night; fo every easter])

wind, I think, blows over some Champion or other,

and a swords-man rifes in the morning, where no such

thing could be found the evening before it. Sure: Ire-

land is we'l stock’d! but 1 will endeavour to lessen the

number, by cutting him up for pickie, at the time and

place apponted, &c. Strange! That fo great a Hero

Jesuld at last floop to draw bis puiffant sword upon

feeble women!

Dr. Tenniion, Chaplain in ordinary to his Majesty,

and a Prebendary of Canterbury, is appointed Bishop of

Otlory in Ireland, in the room ot Su Thomas Veiey,

deceaied. E.P.

We hear trom Clare-Mall in Cambridge, that Dr.Green,

late Fellow of that Colege, Author of the celebrated

Grenian Philosophy, b.ing dead, hath made the Matter,

with 3 Fellows ot Clare Hall, Dr. Benticy, and 3 other

heads of Colleges his executors; and has bequeathed all

his estate, to the amount of above 20. |. to Clare-Hai!

on the following conditions; sft. They are to publish

all his posthumous works. adly. They are to get his

body anatomized, and to hang his skeleton at the head

ot a cais of bcoks which he made the Hall-Library a

preiene of, just before ie died 5 he has likewise ordered

a monument to be erected in five several places. with a

long epitaph he has lett to be inserte! upon each of them:

And in caie Clare-Hal! don't execute this his will, his et-

feéts are to go to Sr. John’s College; and if they refule,

to any other of the respective Colleges that will execute

the willot the deceased. JY.E.

Laft week dy’d at Chester the Rev. Mr. Oliver, one

of the Prebendaries of that Cathedral, in a great age:

His. cath is greatly regrestsd, on account of his many

excellent qual. ficauons, ms

s Monpay, Aug. 24.

On faturday evening the Re. Hon. the Lord Mayor

went to Smithfield with the usual State, to proc.aim

Dartholomew fair, and stopping under Newgate, Mr,

Pitt the Keeper of the goal crunk to his Lordship

and the Sheritfs in a cool tankard, according to old

oy

~eaphsat he has likewise promised to fettle, with all conveni-

,cufom. C,

Eee

On faturday last, the Rt, Hon. the Lord Mayor fro

claimed Bargholomew-fair in the usual form in Cloth-

fair near Smithfield. The ceremony being ended, his

Lordship and the two Sheriffs did Captain Shackleton

the honour to drink a glass of wine with him, then

proceeded thro’ the loud acclamations of the pcople to

his Mansion-house. P.

On iaturday last their Majesties, accompanied with

his Royal Highness the Prince, his Royal Highnefi the

Duke, and the Princesses Royal, Amelia and Carolina,

took the diversion of hunting the Stag in Windsor Fo-

rest, being attended by several persons of cuality and

distinction. C.

Yesterday the Court went into mourning for 6 weeks

for the Dutchess Dowager of Lunenbourg, who died

lately in France. Jdid. D. F.

On triday last was paid in the India House in Leaden-

hal!-street, the wages due to the company of the thip

Houghton; and this diy the company’s ship Monmouth

will be paid at the abovesaid place, being both trom

China. did.

On monday the 7th of September 2 months due in

6 will be paid at the Treasury-office in Broadestreet, to

the companies of his Majestys ships undermention-

Qed, viz.

Adventure, —— Dec. 31, 1279.

Aldborough,

Dieadnought, —

Portland, —~

june 505 17374

Ibid

Laft friday several Custom-house Officers went, ac-

cording to information, to a house near St, Mary Mag-

dalen’s Church in Southwark, where was lodged a con-

fiderable quantity of tea and muir, with other goods

that were brought there by smugglers. The officer,

Ly searching, found out the goods; but the smuzolers

made retiftance with fircearms 3 fo that only s> ib. of

tea, and « pieces of muliin were fiezed; and the smug-

gicrs made off with the rest on horseback, threacning

all persons that {) ould refift them. P

Mis. Twifleton, the ancient, pious and generous Gen.

tlewoman, who lately gave ieool, to St. bartholomew’s

hospita!, and 3.cl towards the new building thereof,

fhe being to be paid out of it 671. per annum, during

her lite, went last friday to the said hospita!, and having

viewed the wards, and observed the decency, good or-

der and care, with which the miserable persons thereof

are treated, was highly pleated that fhe had io diiposed

or that branch of her charity, D P.

On jaturday morning Captain Younger, Commander

ot the Nelion from Viiginia, now lying at King’s stairs,

Rovherhith, being near aifcharge, 1ummaging his ship’s

hold, found the shed of a rattle fnake, which in appear-

ancee mult measure 1: feet; and near the fame the

{nake appeared, to the Captain’s great durprize; but the

{nake got immediately under some lumber in the ship,

and is not yet taken. D F.

Yesterday between 3 aud 4 0° clock, 3 Gentlemen

were robbed near the middle of Hounfloweheath by 4-

highwaymen, well mounted on black and dark geldings,

They took trom them their money, watches, rings, &c.

to avout the value of 20]. and made off with their

booty towards S:anes. P.

\efterday about 1 0’ clock, a journeyman Baker, in

going through Lincoln’seinn passage, was set upon by

tout-pads, who robb'd him of 2s. being all the moe

ney he had, and stabl’d him with a penkife in several

places; one of them is taker, and secure¢d, in order to

be examined D P.

a

25

The rattle snake mentioned in our last to “have been

{een in the ship Nelson at Rotherhith, is not yet taken.

it was ieen again yesterday, but there being a quantity

of lumber in the ship’s holt, which shelters it, and the

bite of these creatures being judged incurable, and of-

ten attended with present death, their tecth being hollow,

thro’ which the poison is convey’d from their gums

which swell when they are angry) into the wounds

they make; till that is removed, it is tought unfafe to

atempt the taking of it. D.P.

Some days ago a poor woman was found hanging on

a tree in the road between Greenwich and Woolwi.h,

a child cf about a year old fitting near her on the

ground ) by persons who. cut her down, and foot

brought her to her felt, when fhe told them, that fear

of starving had induc’d her to that aét. And on sun-

day morning the fame woman was found dea’, hang-

ing ona tree in an orchard ia Plusitted-parish, near

Woolwich. Jd¥d.

A tew days tince the York Stage-Coichman coming

to town, saw a woman hanging in the wood on the

other fide of Highgate, whereupon he quitted his box,

[Page 3.]

Tuesday, Aug.

ent thither and cut her down; and there remaining { - At Lee’s and Harper's great Theatrical Booth, is pers

yme fymptome of life, the pafflengers took her into the

bh, and carried her to Highgate, where, after some

pes fhe reco.ered. The occasion of her committing

Ty eiolence on her self, was the distress fhe was r:duc’d

> by being left by her husband, who is gone to I reland,

with whom, however, fhe parted by consent. Ibid.

There is great talk of a mott curious piece of nature

growing in the garden of the famous Mr. Newton, who

cures mad peopic in W ood’s-close near Islington, which

isa white lilly, having a clu''er of roots growing upon

the uppermott end of the stalk; a rarity ever b tore

known by any Virtuoli that hth yet seen its and there

has been a great fum of money profer’d for it, Jd7d.

WEDNESDAY, Aug. 26.

Windsor-Castle, Aug. 24. His Majesty has been plea-

fed to grant unto Sir Philip Medow:, Knight, and the

Right Honourable the Lerd Viscount Middleton, the

Office of Comptrollers for the Accompts of the Army.

Os Majesty has been pleased to present Daniel De Bar,

A. M. to the Reétory of Holdenby in the County of

Northampton and Diocese of Peterborough, void by

the death of Mr. ! anicl Amiand = 7éd.

‘Yesterday a Committee of Coun: il was held at the|

Cock-pit, relating to the late Mr. Wood’s petition for

4 Charter for making iron with pit-coa bat we hes.

the fame is not like tobe granted. did.

We hear that the Right Honourable tie Lord Mayor

hath disposed of the place of one of his Officers, vacant}

by the death of Mr. Clark, (a place reckow'd worth

8501. purchase} to Mr. Ellison, who had been before one

of his Lordcship’s Officers. did.

This Day the Sessions begin at Guild-hall. The

five young Highwaymen thot were taken at Windsor,

are not yet brought up to Newgate by a Habeas Cor-

pus, but are soon expected in order to be tryd this tel-

lowing sessions at the Old Batley. Jdzd.

This day the following of his Majesty’s Ships will be

recalled at the Pay office in in Broad street for short Al-

Jowance, viz

er ee

Ships Names Beginning. Ending

Saphire, —~-eAug. 1, 1729. Sept. 14, 1729.

Kinfale, —- Jan. 1, 1726. May 25, 1727.

Lynn, O&. 16, —— “Jan. 7, 1726.

Ditto, April 2, 1727. June 24, 1727.

Ditto, —_——- June 25, -——-_ Sept. 16,

Ditto, -——._ Sept. 17, ——- Dec. 9, —-—

Leopard, ——April 18, 1726. Odtob. 31, 1726.

Lenox, Jan. 22, —— May 6, ——-

Nottiegham, April 23, Octob.31, -—

Lyon, June 17, 1727. 31, 1727.

Yesterday morning money was fent from the Pay.

office in Broad-street, down !o the nore to pay the

wages due to the Company of his Majesty s Stoop Wea-

ale to the 3: ft of December, i72¢. Ibid.

Yesterday in the atternoon the Indian Kings came to

the Artillery Groun’, where they were received by the

General Officers in a very handsome manner, and «ere

paid all the compliments suitable to their diynity; from

thence they return’d to Bethlehem, atrended by a great

number of the populace, where they were elegantly en-

tertain’d by several of the Governours, who met to re-

ceive them. Ibid.

Col. Charteris hath presented an humble petition to

his Majesty, praying to be restored to his eltates for-

i

_ Lady, with the comical Humours of Noodle and his

_ or the Siege of Carthage, with the comical Humours of

| 1. 00d]e, Stitch Puzzle, &c.

| fica coniiits at preiént of 2°,00) mer, without recken-

feited by his late attainder. D. P.

Lait week a Gold{mith of the City of Bristol was

taken into custody, on his being charged with coun-

terfeiting the current coin of this realin; whereupon his|

house was search’d, and above 700 pieces of countere

feit coin, with several materials for counterfeiting the

fame, were found therein; he was thereupon commit-

ted to Bristol gaol, and his trial is tocdme on at the

ensuing feflions, which begins next week. Jdid.

By an express from Mr. Keene, his Majesty’s Mini-

fler at the Court of Spain, the South-Sea company have

received the schedula for their ship Prince William,

Captain Cleland’s admission at Caythagena and Porto

Bello; ’tis said to be in such strong terms, and fo very

full and clear, as to exceed all they have yet had, and

will certainly prevent the abuses and impositions with

which their trade there has hitherto been attended.

D. F.

From the Pevalus in Grub-street.

H At Mr. Penkethman and Mr. +4 Giffard’s great

Theatrical Booth, is aéted a new Droll, called att

Tyler and “fack Straw, in which are presented m

Lord Mayor, four Mobbs, anda great deal of hollow-

ing, singing and dancing.

formed that celebrated Entertainment, call’d The Siege

of Béthulia containing the antient History of Fudith

and Holofernes; together with the comical Humours

of Ruftego and his man Terrible With the Opera of

Robin Hood and Little Fobns and variety of iinging

and dancing.

At Oates’s and Fielding’s great Theatrical Booth, is

presented The generous Free Majon, or the Confiant

man Doodle: both whom we suppose to be Free-

Mafons.

has invented a machine, for which the King has grant-

ed him 4.patent, his. Majesty and the whole Court ba-

ving first seen it work at Compeigne, and he having

produced .a certificate from the Academy of Sciences.

This machine, with the assistance of a man or two, docs

all that can be perform’d by water mills s, and among

other things, blows a pair of forge bellows, and strikes

(00 strokes in an hour, with a hammer weighing’ 1002"

or 1500 lb. weight, fo that with this machine the work- ,

ers at Jarge forges may work in any weather, whetherit,

be frost or drought. C. Ps oS Gee¢

WepnNesDAyY, Aig. 26. me SPA

v assured Prince

va

At Dicky Reynold’s, is presented Scipio’s Triumph,

At Bullock’s and Hall’s, The ehole Hiffory of Herod|

and Mariamne, with that celebrated Opera cali’d Flora

or Hob in the Well.

FOREIGN NEWS.

THuRSDAyY, Aug. 13.

Yesterday arriv’d the Mail due trom France.

Verfaitles, Aug.26 N.S. On the 25ft, twelve nur-

{vs were choien, out of those retaines, to nurse the

Prince or Prince{s the Que-n is going to bring into the

worl) C

Genoa, Fuly31.N.S. Thecamp of t! e rebels of Cor-

ing the inhabitants of + 4 villages situate in the streights

ot Accia, who have declared tor them, end taken an oath

of fidelity to them. They have published a manifesto,

wherein they declare, that the occasion of their revole

was, because being born free, the Republick and Senate

have always kept them in slavery, by making them pay

much heavier taxes than the rest of theiriubje@s. They

demand, that before they enter into any tfeaty of accom-

modation, their ancient privileges be reilored 5; that the

extraordinary impofts they have paid ever since the year

1715, be suppressd; tha! those who have been the cause

ot their oppieffion, be deliver'd up to them; that the

Country between the rivers Liemone and Tavigniano be

yielded to them, with the sovereignty thereof; and that

all the garrisons be drawn out of theifland. Therebels

foreseeing that the re; ublick might borow foregin troops

to reduce them, they have provided themselves with

arms, and carry d off the ammunition they found in the

mavazines ot S. Florent, Ca'vi, Corfo, and §. Boniface:

They have melted down the bells of those towns, and

caft them into cannon, and have thrown up a retrench-

ment with redoubt. along the coast, where th:y think

a descent feafible. The guards they hive posted with

artillery in several places, are order’d to fire upon any

Genoeze flips that offer to approach the fhoar. ‘Their

principal Chief is named Pampliani, and is a Gentleman

who has signali:ed him(elf ia toreign service. That Ot-

ficer has affix’d up papers in several places f the island,

importing, that the malecontents have no design, in ‘a-

king arms, to plunder or in{u't any of their opprefsd

brethren, bur to maintain the liberties and privileges of

the nation. They are indeed fo careful to prevent al!

the disorders, which thofeof their party might commir,

that they have hang’d 15, who went out of the camp

to rob in the village of Ajaccio, One of their detach-

ments going the other day to poffefs themselves of the

little town of Allaria, the inhabitants fired upon them,

to oblige them to retire; but they at:acked the

place with vigour, took it by fcalade, and put the

garrifo», and all they tound in arms, to the sword.

It is just now reported, that the Republick have af-

embled 6 or 7o30 men, with whom they hope to

reduce them. Signior Francisco-M:ria Spinola is just

gone on board for S. Remo, in quality of Commiflary

of the republick, with instructions to prevent the ree

bellion of the peopleth’re, who have already given marks

of their difcuntent. P. D. P.

SATURDAY, Aug. 22.

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from Holland.

Paris, Aug. 25. The Courier which was dispatched

hence the sft instant for Cazalla, isnot yet returned; but

the ordinary letters from Spain continue to assure u:,

that the Spaniards hasten their preparations for embark-

ing their troops, the Court having fent money sufficient

tor it to Barcelona; fo that the Spanish ministers every

moment expect news of the troops being shipped off,

nd the fleet being put to fea. D. F.

Monpay, Aug. 24.

Yesterday arrived the Mails due from France and

Flanders.

Paris, Aug. 30. N.S. M. Comipagnot, an engineer,

Vienna, Aug.ig. N.S. We are now

Eugene will go to Italy, to command in chief; and

in that cafe, the Field-marshal Count Merci, will com-

mand in Calabria. The Clergy of Austria have granted

the Emperor 3 Millions of Florins.- 12,000 Imperia-

lifts are immediately to take possession of the principal

places of Tuscany. C. and D. F.

Berlin, Aug. 26. N.S. An express from Dresden has

brought advice, that the Eleétoral Princess of Saxony

was brought to bed of aSon. -C.

Paris, Aug. 25. N.S. The courier fent to Cazalla

the 1ft instant, is not yet returned; but another is ar-~

rived, by whom we areadvised, that the King of Spain

perfifts in his resolution to go upon the expedition th’s

year; and we have received letters from Barcelona, of

the 13th instant, by the way of Marseilles, which af-

fur¢ us the preparations for the shipping of the. troops

was carried on with all possible expedition; that they

were actually putting ‘the ammunition, provisions, &c.

on board; and they reckoned the fleet might sail to--

ward the close of this. month, or the beginning of

September - Mr. Walpole, the English Ambassador, ‘is.

upon the point of setting out for London. ’Tis said,

Count Koningfek, who is returned hither from Com-

piegne, will not leave this Court till news is brought.

of the departure of the Spanish fleet: There seems at

present to be no doubt of a war. Jdid.

Milan, Aug. 12. The greatest part of the German-

troops that are in this Dutchy, are marching towards

the Cremoneze, where two bridges have been laid over;

the Po, for the conveniency of the troops that are to

encamp on the bank of thatriver. An officer has been

fent to Modena, to agree with the Duke of that name

touching the passage of the German troops, when they

are to march through his territories to go into 'Tu-

cany, or into the Luneggiana. D. P.

The Course of Exchange.

Amsterdam 34 5 Madrid 42 5 8ths

Ditto at fight 34 3. Bilboa 42

Rotterdam 347 Leghorn 51 1 half

Antwerp 35 1 Genoa 54 1 half

Hamburgh 33 1 Venice 49

Paris at light 32 3 8ths Lisbon ¢ s. 6d: a 3 8ths

Bourdeaux at fight 32 1 8th | Porto 5s. 64. a3 8ths

Cadiz 42 1 halt Dublin 10 1 half

On Tuesday South Sea Stock was 102 3 4ths. South

Sea Annuity 108. Bank 144. India 184 a 4th.

Three per Cent. Annuity 961 4th. Million Bank 108.

Airican 44. York Buildings 21. Royal Assurance (1001.

paid in) 91. London ditto (131. paid in) 121 8tha

14th. New Bank Circulation 1 half Prem. South Sea

Bonds 51. gs. ‘India ditto 5 1. 14s.

Prices of Goods at Bear Key on Monday.

per Quarter r Quarter

Wheat — 23 Hog Peas aed * 16

Rye 10 to 13 Boiling Peas— 20 to 22

Barley — 1@ to 13 Pale Malt 12 to 20

Oats — 8 to 13 Brown Malt—12 to 18

Horle Beans 16 to 23 Tares —~— 20 to 28

Coals 21s. to 22 s. Od. per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 — 155. to 20s. per Hundsed. 3

Hops 1729 — 25s. to 40s. per Hundred. ad

Rape Seed 11], tornl. 5s. per Lat.

ADVERTISEMENTS,

This Day is pubish'd. (Price 6d.) :

Shore Answer to a long Rebinical Lewer, tuppos’d to be

wrote to Mr. Woolfton. By William Gardiner, L. L. B.

Vicar of Hambleron in the Counry of Rutland.

Ajfo an Alphaberical Lift of Numbers for the better regulating

Gentlemen's Libraries. Contriv'd in such a manner, that any Sere

vant, who knows his Letters, may Keep the Books in order, andy

fee whena Book is loft vr miflsid, as well as his Matter. Price 2s. 6

Both printed for Bernard Linor at the Cross Keys between

Temple Gates in Fleet-street.

{Page 4]

At RETNOLLC’'s Great Theatr'cal Pooth,

Overs again che Hospital Gate in Smithheld,

[PUring the Time of Bartholomew-fair, will be prefened, an

~ excelleot new Daroxt, call’d

SCIPiOs TRIUMPH:

OR,

The SIEGE of CARTHAGE.

With the Comical Humours of Noodle, Stitch, Puzzle, &c-

The Parts of

Scipio, Mr. Mallart. Pheniffa, Mrs.Williamson

~ Alvefius, by Mr. Rofce. Noodle, ©). ) Mr. Fones.

Lelius, Mr. Seoppelaer. | Stitch, ¥“) Mr. Dutton.

Almeyda allart. | Puzzie, Mr. Hipply.

Aod the other Parts to be performed by the refi of the Comedians

from the HAY-MaxkET.

To which will be added,

A new Pantomime Entertainment in Grotesque s, call’d

HARLEQUINs CONTRIVANCE:

) OR,

The Pracust of a WANTON WIFE.

The Part of Harlequin by Mr. Krorr.

The Forester, Mr. Reynolds,

His Man Clumfy, by? Mr. Dove.

Colombine, YS Mrs. Forefler.

Bawd, Mr. Fones.

Mr. Stoppelaer.

Foresters, g bys Mr. Wathen.

Mr. Hicks.

Mrs. Nokes. -

Women Peasants, bord Mrs. Clark.

Milfs Palms.

N. B. All the Habits, Scenes, Machines, and other Decorations,

are enurely new. Vivant Rex & Regina.

To beSOLD or LETT,

In good Repair, and but two Miles Diflance tiom either Seaines

or Windsor, advantageously situated, having a fine Proipe& of

of the Castle and Park,

A Hovse called Leatneatakes, fix Rooms on a Floor,

Coach hou'’e ard Stabling, two Acres of Land laid ouzjin Or-

chard and Gardening, with or without sixteen Acres of Mea-

e dow Land, on the Thames fide, Egham Parish, in the County of

Surrey.

Ranuire of Mr. Turner} Beickmaker, near the said House; L.

Gilliver at Homer’s Head in Fleet-street; or of Mr. Lawton, in

Great Turn-Stile, Holbourn.

Ac Josuva StorHenrn’s Boarding-School in Charles-street,

mg square,

ARE taught Excuisn, Larix, Greex and French. Al-

fo Writing and Arxithmetick, aiter an easy and peculiar

man ef.

Merchants Accompts (or the true Italian Method of Book- keep-

ing) and the Mathematicks.

Also Drawing, Musick, Dancing and Fencing; and every Qua-

Tification proper for young Gentlemen design'd tor Offices or Em-

poyments cicher at Home or Abroad.

N.B. The House is spacious, and the Apartments accommoda-

ted according to the different Studies of the young Gentlemen.

This Day is published.

AN Essay upon Poetry and Painting, with relation to the Sacred

and Prophave History. With an Appendix concerning Ob-

fceuity vo and Painting.

Us Pidera Poefis.

Dabitarqne Licentia fumpta pudentur.

Difie docendus adhuc quid cenfet amicalus:

Ut fi Cacus iter monfirare velit.

By Charies Lamotte, D. D. F. R. 6. Member of the Society ot

Anuquarties, and Chaplain to his Grace the D. of Monrague;

printec tor F. Fayram at the Souvh Entrance of the Royal-Ex-

cuanges and J. Leake, Bookseller at Bath.

This ap is published,

Numb. IL. for the Month of June, of

‘foria Literaria: Or, an exatt and early Account of

H the most valuable Books published in the several

Europe;

Floriferis ut apes in faltibus omnia Libant

yar | ms itt _ sh Sih corns

1 for N, Prevost, over against Southampton-street

ge egg el and E. Symon 4 Cornhill, and fold by

J.Crokatt and L Gilliver in Fleet-street. To which is

parts ol

from Paris, Lyons, Zurich, and a Catalogue

Pe Teaported during the said Month of June,

by N. Prevost and Comp.

Where may be had, on wrtes. I], far the Month of

History of England, in English and French, by

gestion aa Answer, Tor the Use 3 Schools, extracted

from Mr. Rapin Thoyras, 1°,

The fame Book m English alone.

Tabula Chronologica Historie Sinice Connexa cum Cyclo qui

yudgo Ki» ife Dicitur, in 3 sheets. Rome 1729.

addec, The present Strate of Learning, Extracts of feve- .

Just publish’d, The Second Edition of

§ ERMONS on the following Subjects. By SamutL CLARKE

-D. late Rector of St. James’s, Westminster, published from

the Asshor’s MS. by Fobn Clarke, D.D. Dean of Sarum; witha

Preface giving some Account of the Life, Writings and

of the Aathor, by Bexyamiw Lord Bishop of SALisBuRY. In

2 Vols.

Vol, I,

Of Faith in God.

Of the Unity of God,

Of the Eternity of God.

Of the Spirituality of God,

Of the Immurability of God.

Ot the Omnipresence of God.

O+ the Omniporence of God.

Of the Omnilcience of God.

Ot the Wisdom of God.

Ot the Goodness of God,

Of the Patience of God.

Of the Justice of God,

Vol. If.

Of the Glory of God.

Of God's being the Father of

Mankind.

Of being the Children of God.

Ot loving God.

O: the Fear of God,

Of the wisdom cf being Religi-

ous.

| Of imitating the Holiness of God.

Of the Love of God tuwards Sin-

ners.

Of Believing in God.

Of the Grace of God.

O: the Kingdom of God.

Printed for J- and J. Knapton at the Crown in St. Paul’s

Church-yard.

Where may be had,

The Second Edition of Dr. CLARKE’s Exposition of the Church

Cath. chism, and all the Works of Dr. CLARKE.

This Day is Published, Price 6d.

P HILOSOPHIA MATHEMATICA NEWTONIANE Illu-

strate. Tomi Duo. Quorum prior tradic Elemenca Mathe-

feos ad comprehendendam demonstrationem hujus Philoivphiz

fciu necessaria. Pofterior continet 1) Definiriones & Ltges

motus generaliores; 2) Leges virium centripecarum & Theoriam

attractionis feu gravitatioms corporum in fe mutuo; 3) Mundi

Systema. A Grorncio Perno Domckio.

Sumptibus Tho Meighan, Bibliopola in Vico Drury-lane, &

Jer. Batley, fub Signo Columba, in Vico Pater-nofter Row.

This Day is Publish’d.

Which is one of the Reasons the pe of. Commencement at Dublin was

nt off.

HE CENSORIAD. A Poem. Written originally by Mar-

tin Gulliver. Wiultrated with sundry curious Annotations

ot divers learned Commentators, Scholiafts and Criticks.

Felicia Tempora qua te

Moribus opponant. Juv.

—Thou Vermin wretched

As e’er in meafl'd Pork was hatched,

Thou Tail of Worthip that doeft grow

On Rump ot Justice »6 on Cow.

Printed for the Booksellers ot London.

Of whom also may be had,

I, A View of the present State of Affairs in the Kingdom of

Ireland, Containing, A Lift of Absenters of that Kingdom, and

Answer. Also a Modest P opoial tor preventing the Children, of

poor People from being a Burthen to their Parents or the Country,

and for making them beneficial to the Publck. By Dr.S-t.

_ The Batchelor’s Estimate of che Expencesof a married

Life.

1 I. The Married Man’s Answer to the Batchelor’s Estimate.

IV. The Batchelor’s Reply to the Married Man, or none but

Fools marry.

V. New Refle&ions on the Female Sex. Written by the

Marchioness de Lambert, and tranflaed by Mr. Lockman.

This day is published,

(The second Edition revised and corre€&ted, with large Additions

by the Author) ne

A Compendious and methodical. Account of the Principles of

Natural Philosophy, as explained and illustrated in the feve-

ral Courfes of Experiments performed at the Academy in Little

Tower-street. By Benjy. WorstTER, A.M.

Printed for SrerHeEN AusTeN, at the Angel and Bible in St.

Paul's Church-yard. In 8vo, Price 48. 6d.

Where may be had,

I. A General System of Hydrottaticks and Hydraulicks, Philofo-

phical and Practical, illustrated and explained by 50 large Copper

Plates. In 2Vols. 4to. Price 11. 1058.

II, The Works of the Right Reverend GeonGe Burt, D. D.

concerning the Holy Trinity, &c. In 2 Vols. 8vo. Price 10 s.

Where may be had,

Ill. The FEMALE Puysician, containing all the Diseases in-

cident to that Sex, in Virgins, Wives and Widows; together with

their causes and Symptoms, their Degrees of Danger, and re-

fpe&tive Methods of Prevention and Cure. To which is added,

the whole Art of New improved ny 6 comprehending the

necessary Qualifications of a Midwite, and particular Directions

for laying Women in all Cafes of difficult and preter-natural

Births; cogether with the Diet and Regimen of both the Mother

and Child. By Jouw Mowsrax, M.D. 8vo. Price ss.

BOOKS printed and fold by John Brotherton at the

Bible next the three Tun Tavern in Cornhill.

Ddifon’s Works, 4 Vol. | King’s H. Gods.

in 4to. Blair's Sermons, § Vol: 8vo.

Gay's Fables. Gordon’s Geog. Grammar,

Mandevill’s Free Thoughts | Plutarch’s Lives,8 Vel. 8vo,

Ditto Fable of the Bees, ' Milton’s Paradise loft.

2 Vol. | Ditto regain’d.

DittoVirgin unmask’d. | Clarendon’s History, 6 Vol.

Ditto Hypochondriack | Guardians, 2 Vol,

Boyer’s Telemachus, 2 Vol. | Cooke’s Deteftion, 3 Vol.

Pilgrim’s Progress. Roileau Oeuvre Poetique.

Musical Dictionary. Colleétion of Novels.

Buckingham’s Works, 2 Vol. | Shakespear’s Plays,

Boyer’s Diétienary abridg’d.

Ovid’s Epistles.

Pope’s Homer's [lliad, 6 Vol

Ditto Artof Love.

Ditto Odyfy’s, 5 Vol. | Abelard’s Letters.

4

This Day is published

The Fifth Edition (with grok Additions and Am

R. RADCLIFFE’s Pracricat Disrensaro

ing a Compleat Body of Paescriprioxs,

€afes Internal and External, di

I. From various Authors,

endments) of

RY: Contain.

fitted for all Dif.

gefted under proper Heads; feleGed

Il. From the best Prescriptions, chief

uled by Dr. RapcttrFe, in Latin and English, regularly placed

Under each Couollary, IL An exa& Catalogue of all the p;

cripuions, recited in the lace and present Lonpox, Ba‘Tes’s we

Futxen’s Dispenfatories: With Remarks and Observations ex

plaining the Vircues and right Application of each Reci pe. By E “a

STROTHER, M. D.

Printed for C. RiVinorown at the Bible and Crown in St, Paul's

Church-yard, Price 5s. 6d,

Where also may be had,

I, Dr.STROTHER's Essay on Sickness and Health

Price 3s. 6d. °

ia --- = Essay on Fevers, 2d Bdit. Price 3s 64

» -+Evonia: Or, A Discourse on causes.

Edit. Price 3s. 6d. aren of

IV. --- Experiene’d Measures how co manage

“weap ge the Small Pox,

i --- Teemmongee Practica. Price 4%

+ => Practical Observations on the late Epidemi

eit as Price 28. 6d. en aun,

Vil, MATERIA MEDica: Or, A new Deleripti

Virtues and Effects of all Drugs, or Simple Sealicinan, —-

Use: To which is prefixed, A General Tntrodu@ion, containin

a mechanica] Account of the Operations ot all Medicines upon Hu-

man Bodies. By E. SrarorHer, M.D. In

Price 108, ’ : Fwo Volumes,

. 2d Edition,

_ Dr. GODFREY’s General Cordial,

So universally approved of for the Cholick, and all manner

of Painszn the Bowels, Fiuxes, Fevers, Small-Pox, Meae

iles, Kheumatifins, and Reftlefness in Men, Wimen, and

C.ildren, and particularly for several Ailments incident to

Clild-bearing women, and Relief of young Clyldren in breede

vig ther Teeth,

I S fold in most Cities, Boroughs, and Market-Towns

throughout Great-Britain and Ireland; remov'd from

Hunfdon to Broxborn in Hertfordshire: And ior the Con-

veniency of supplying all those parts, there are éftablished

by me BENJAMIN GODEREY these followinz

Wholesale Warehouss, viz. ”

lohn Weftlake’s in Queen-street, Bristol;

Peter Leadbeater’s, Distiller, in Weft Chester;

Mr. Button’s, Bookseller, on thie Bridge at Newcastle

upon Tyne;

Mr. Brooke’s, Distiller, on the Blind-key, Dublin.

As also at my Original Warehouse in Bishopsgate-street

PP cs A

ny reputable Shop-keeper in any City, Borough, or

Market-Town, where this Medicine is not already” fold,

may be supply,d at any of the said Warehouses with good

lowance

N. B, The Publick are desired to take Notice, (to pres

vent being imposed on) that there is an ill minded Person

whocounterfeits the said Medicine, and puts the Title of God«

frey’s Cordial on the top of the Bottles, and in his Bills given

with the Bottles, he calls it Tre GENERAL COR.

DIAL, and does not putthe Person’s Name who prepares

it; but as this Counterfeit Maker is now found out by

his own Confession, he and his Sellers will be prosecuted

as the Law directs (as Impcftors): And to prevent the

Buyers from being impos’d on, I have put my Christian

Name on the Top of each Bottle, which is prepared

By me Benjamin Godfrey, M. D,

The price of each Bottleis 6 d.

The Celefiial Anodyne Tinffure: Or, The Great Pain-

Eafing Medicine,

| ei: and approv’d of for its won-

derful and never-failing—

in giving immediate Ease and Relie

in all manner of Pains, either inward

Or outward, and is the most certain Re

medy in the World for a fure and

speedy Cure of the Cholick, and

exp lling Wind, Gripes and Pains

in the Stomach, the Pleurify, stitches or pains in the

fide, back, loins, or any other part; RKheumatick Ail-

ments, which cause pain and dolor. It hath given

ease to a Miracle, when all other Remedics have fail’ds

In the Gravel and Stone in the Kidneys, it gives ease

forthwith, and brings them away to Admiration. It also

facilitates and causes a speedy Delivery in Child-birth.

Tis no Pow trifling thing to allure the World with, but

a real and well-experienced Medicine, not 2éting by Stu-

pifaétion (as Opiates) but by a friendly, balsamick, and

fubtile Nature, pacitying the most severe and terrible rack-

ing pains, and carrics off the cause, not by purging, but

by Transpiration, by Urine, or breaking Wind. No Fa-

mily onght to be without ie; and used outwardly it cures

Swallings, Aches, Pains, Numbness or Weakness of the

Joints; “tis excellent for Cramps, and all other aged In-

firmitics, effecting Woncers in Agues, Fevers, Small-

ox, &c.

It is sold only by Mr. PARKER, Printer, at his House in Salisbury-Court, or by such persons as he shall depute, at Eighteen-pence a Bottle, with printed Directions: and, if requested, will be brought to any person, by the Hawker who sells his Penny Post.

Note, 'Tis seal'd as above, to prevent Counterfeits.

LONDON: Printed by A. Moore, for Captain Gulliver, near the Temple, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in.

[Price Two Pence.]

