The Grub-street Journal.

Thursday, JULY 30, 1730.

Numb. 30

A Squire be bad, whose name was Ralph.

Thrice he essay’d to mount aloft ;

But by his weighty bum as oft

He was pull’d back. Hudibras.

YOU tell me, dear Bavi, you was agree-

ably surprized to hear, from my self,

that I was still number’d among the

living ; but your wonder would have

ceasd, had you cali’d to mind the

do&rine of tran{migration. I should

have told you in my former, that the

teeth you hinted at as loft, were not mine, but a couple

1 borsow’d from a fellow, who boasted very much of

their sharpness, tho’ they prov’d mere stumps. I thank

you, from the very profundity of my heart, for condo-

ling my removal to that inaufpicious quarter of the

town, Cripplegate ; and as you desire to know the name

of the wicked Grubean, who has reduc’d me to the de-

plorable condition I am now in, 1 shall not {cruple to

tell it you.

In short, witHout mincing the matter, ‘tis Femmy

Ninny Hammer, that modest, {weet (or, as some fay)

{mock-fac’d, self-worshipping prig, who is equally your

friend and mine.

I pass over your compliment upon my jingle, but can-

not suppress the fort of resentment I felt, when I read

the unkind construction you put upon those words of

mine, I'll let you into # feeret; which all my wageac-

quaintance assure me, can, according to your way of ex-

laining them, signify no other than the Powdering Tub.

Fie, fie, Bavi, what ufe a brother thus? I thought you

had more grace in you.

But as I always had a high esteem for Mr. Secre-

tary Bavius, I shall suspend my wrath, till I hear fur-

ther from you. In the mean time, as you desire to be

let into the genuine cause of my vanishing away (I had

almost said like Romulus) instantaneously, in order to

transmit it to the public, I shall here gratify your curio-

fity in that particular.

As I was one day pondering in our Museum at the

Pegafus, upon several matters of the greatest importance

to the Grubean world, I receiv’d the following uncom-

monly-modest epiftie from an eminent Knight Errant.

To Jemmy Fritnpvy, Secretary to the Weekly Medley.

; | Seo constantly peept into your papers from their

é infancy, but can assure you, with very little fatis-

* faction, as all of them are mere rhapsodies, without

* the leatt art or genius. However, as I cannot but fay

I likeyour plan, and think it capable of great improve-

ment, | shall condescend fo very low as to write for

you, oe you submissively give up the whole ad-

ministration into my hands; and that neither you, nor

any of your diminutive associates, presume to contra-

di& my gufto, which I may justly affirm to be the

only touchftone of good, or rather fine sense,

* To tell you the truth, I think all the moderns, m

own dear self, and half a {core more friends excepted,

a pack of stupid, ignorant animals ; and for that rea-

fon, in cafe 1 do you the honour to appear at your

head, I am resolved not to inferc, in what I then deign

to call my paper, any Letters from correspondents,

tho’ fent by the authors of the Ta/e of aTub, the Duz-

ciad, or Beggar's Opera ; writers whose fame is built

on no stronger foundation, than the bad taste and de-

generacy of the age. You probably may look up-

on this assertion to be as vain as it is sanguine, but

begad, *tis matter of faét ; for the truth of which, I

appeal to that pretty knick-knack, my own unerring,

infallible gufto.

‘ Among other particulars, I must be fo free as to

condemn the many ludicrous pieces you have publish’d,

which I'll be kedgell’d, if you won't be fo stupid as

to distinguish by the title of witty. But what a pax

is the meaning of that fame word? Demme if I

have not ranfack’d all the antients, and tortur’d this

poor brain of mine, in order to find out the meaning

of it, but in vain; fo that blaft me, if I don’t think

it quite out of nature. It must be fo, and therefore I

am absolutely determin’d, not to let any thing fo tri-

* fling pass currant, if ever I hold the reios. Wit,

enananeerenane* a & &

ee |

* quoth a! what the de’el is it (if any thing it be) but

‘ whipt fullibub, which is as much inferior to plain,

* home spun, found sense, as a french kickfhaw to jolid

* Englifth pudding. ,

* But to consider this filly subject in another light.

What can derogate more from the dignity of human

nature, than laughter? Now as this wit, as you call it,

is very apt to awake the rilible faculty, I would dem

it to all intents and purposes, were it for no other rea-

fon, but because it fers all the foolish part of Man-

kind a giggling. Laughter! O harrid! ’tis fo obnaxi-

ous to my complexion, that I hare for upwards of

these five years, devoted three hours every morning to

a mighty pretty dressing glass, where I fo adjust every

mufcle of my Face, that I may challenge the most fullen

Non-Con in Great Britain, to boast a more serious

Syftem of features; and thanks to my Stars, I have

at last contracted fo folem a Phiz, that I defy Dicky

Norris, Harper or Hippifley to ruffle it, tho’ they should

heighten, as ‘tis cali’d, the most facetious Strokes in

Wycherly or Congreve, with all their antick mimick’ry

and stupid Grimace.

‘ But toreturn, in cafe you think fit, with due humi-

lity, to accept of the generous offer I now make you,

depend on’t your paper will be the entertainment of all

polite tea-tables. Nay, {plit me if it won’t be fo much

in vogue, that all our pretty fellows toa man, will

think it more fashionable to have the Weekly Medley,

than a Souff-box in their Pockets, But now | have

mention’d the Snuff box, ’tis impossible for me to pro-

ceed farther, tho’ I’ve a mortal avesfion to vanity,

without acquainting the town by your means, that I

have just writ a secret little poem upon that modith

utensil, Which I intend to dedicate to Mademeoifelle

‘ Flimzy.

* Did I not abhor vanity, as I just now observ’d, |

would expatiate upon a hundred dapper Subjects, that

have exercis'd my gentle mufe. Tho’, 1 must con-

fefs, my favourite peices are my epigrams on a pick-

tooth cafe, an embroider’d Sword knot, and a pair of

buckles ; and above all, my hymn to the block on

which I powder my two eye-delighting toupets. Pof-

fibly you may think these trifling Subjects: but as

Midas by a bare touch, converted every thing into

gold; fo I raise and exalt the humbleft topic that paf-

fes. under my pen, of which my panegyric on a pair

of Clags, is a convincing proof.

* In the whole, methinks Zemmmy I have made you a

most handsome proposal, which if you have any ge-

nius left, you will immediately accept. Your compli-

ance on this occasion, will soon have a with'’d for ef-

fe&t, by the immediate shade your paper will throw

over the Grub-ftrece (mind the sauce-box) the Crafi/-

man and Fag’s Journals. But in cafe you are fo ftu-

pid as to flight it, I swear by the pinch of Havana,

I now have between my fingers, your Journa) will

not be long liv’d; forby the Lard, you have no taste.

I am as matters stand,

neither Your Friend nor Admirer

J. Niany Hammer, alias J. R.

Now Cher Bavi, upon my shewing this letter to our

Society, most of them were mightily {mit with the

beauty of it, and were of opinion, that the writer must

be a non-pareil ; upon which, 1 was immediately remov‘d,

and Mr. Ninny hammer advanc'd to the employment in

which he now fo justly shines. I am,

Old Friend,

Yours without a Flourish

Weexry Méotey.

P.S. Whereas it has been confidently reported, that

no other hoof but that of the hasty-pudding-pated fel-

low, Harry Stone-Cafile could have given me fo unac-

countable a kick, I assure you ’tis a mistake; he being a

harmless, innocent creature, who is well known to

have nothing terrible belonging to him but his jaw-breaking name.

On Joun Sxort, Porter at the General Post-Office.

(4) Ho John Short at length is gone,

Worn out with age at ninety one;

a woenen*ne fF Hann fae ahaa

an & © a2 & F & @& Se @ @

Oe 68 a2 86 - 6 Oe «4 @

a @ ® gt anae* ae

2§ July 1730.

(a) He liv’d hard, fav’d money, and lent it to serve

some of his acquaintance in necessity.

er én

Whereas (4) three went off just before,

Whole years together made no more.

§ They quickly dropp'd who seem’d fo strong,

Io fort he’s dead who liv’d fo long:

(c) Old shoe-firing’d Short, who'd buried thrice

The Polt-house Clarks that went more nice.

They liv’d too fat for John their friend;

10 But pofled sooner to their end.

Tchn liv'd too short and flow, to last,

Who go so far must not go faft.

His duty was to watch and wait,

And take charge nigh, of the gate ;

1§ And threescore years this (d) bard post,

Tho” lately he some ground had lof (¢).

Death watch’d and found him from the door ;

As he, fo Death, could wait no more,

Now Short at last to rest is gone,

20 (f) Old Nick may keep the gate for Fobn,

Thus the most anxious care and toil

I'th’ Short and long lafts but a while ;

Then what great difference can there be,

Since all fink into eternity?

2§ No gaping there when places fall,

Where Room is aReward forall. “

(6) Three dy’d in a few weeks before, who did not make

9° years. (¢) He always wore shoe-strings. ——«

(4) A great deal of fitting up, lying on the boards ia

their weeks, and not going to bed. ———(e) Was sick

and did not attend, or had his place divided and. fhar’d

with others, which he stomach’d much, but could not

help. (f) The person to succeed is Nick Fack/on.

To the Authors of the Grub.street Journal.

Rumford Ir

Honoured Gentlemen, ad

UCH a Transaction as has been done here within

these few days, actually requires some able fellow of

your illuftrious Society to transmit it to pofterity.

A Club of us hum begs it our request, that you'll

please to appoint some body to the task, that the antient

Fame of our * County, may not be diminish’d, nor the

growing Reputation of this Hundred, and the particular

merit of our twelve Brethren concern’d, may not dwin-

dle rte for want of a proper person to celebrate all

together,

We have heard of phe praises of fevera) other wore

thy Juries, and believe it would be solely owing to our

not applying to fo candid a Society as yours is, if our

impartial Ha/sle-Cap Jury should not also obtain its defer.

ved honours. Therefore we beg leave to give you the

Cafe, and submit it to your wisdom what encomiums

you will raise to efernize them.

The matter of fact was: These good men and true

being all {worn to try the Issue in a cause of assault

and battery, [were much divided, some in favour of the

Plaintiff, and the others in the interest of the Defendants;

and] could not agree about a Veraict: At length it was

proposed by one wifer than the rest, and agreed to by

others to put twelve shillings into a Hat, and be deter.

mined by Crofs or Pile, The first Chance was fix and

fix, which puzzled them a little; the next throw was

decisive; the matter was then clear, there was nothin

to corroborate the Plaintiff’s oath, but some, alm

mortal Wounds and Bruises; but it did not appear the

Defendants gave them, fo they were fortunately and hoe

nourably acquitted.

Certainly no way can be more impartial than this, and

a man must be allow’d to stand a fair Chance who half

be try’d fo; but we hear, that the Judge and most of

the Gentlemen in the Country, who pretend to fine

Reason and Learning, are not a little {candaliz’d at it.

And, indeed, the money’d men may Well be offended at

the Introduétion of such acuftom, in which their riches

may be useless; for there can be no Bribery nor Corrup.

tion, tho’ there be money in the Cafe ; since whatever

conquests silver may make of that kind, it is it self ime

pregnable, and in this way not to be byafs’d from the

Lot deftin’d from above. Wherefore we defise you'll res

commend it as worthy all imitation; and let the worthy

establishers of it be {ung in equal trains. Yours,&c,

* Our Correspondent means Essex.

[Page 2.]

: tion.

LONDON.

E.P. The Evening Post.

S.F.E. St. fames'sEv.Pof.

. E, Whitehall Even. Post.

L.E. London Evenirg Pojt.

C. Courant.

I. Pofi-Boy,

D.P. Daily Pof.

D.F. Datiy Journal.

Tuorsvay, Fuly 23.

_ At the Assizes at Lincoln, held before the Lord Chicf

Baron Reynolds, and Mr. Baron Carter, three were ca-

pitally convicted. The Assizes held at Dorchester for

the County of Dorfer, which ended the 18th infant,

proved a maiden assizes, none being capitally convicted,

and the High-Sheriff on that occasion presented the

Officers of the Court with Glove-money, according to

cuflom. C.,

At Oakham assizes, held for the County of Rut'and,

a Clergyman was try’d for ravishing a woman ot 70

years of age; but the Lord Chief Baron suspecting the

truth of it, examined her very closely, and fuund her in

several falfities ; upon which the Jury acquitted the said

Clergyman, and the Court ordercd him a Copy of his

Indictment, it appearing to be a malicious profecu-

D. P.

Yesterday the Coroner’s Jury fate upon the Bady of

Clemens, a labourer that was killed the day before by

fa'ling from the top of a high pile of Deal-bodrds in

the Carpentes’s yard at Dorfit-stairs, acd brought in

their Verdi&t accidental death. C.

On friday laf the Court of affiftaats of the Artillery

Company met at Guild-ha!', and ordered their annual march

to Barn’s-fields to be on the :ft of August next, being the

anniversary of the accession of his late Majesty King

George the first to the Throne. The Commanders chele

are as follows, viz. the worshipful Micajah Perry, E/q;

Alderman, General; Sir John Wiliams, Kr." Alderman

and Sheriff, Lieutenant General ; Major John Sedley,

* Major Genera ; Capt. John Weeden, first Captain ; Cape.

Hen Glover, second Captain ; Capt. Will. Bell, third

Caprain. Jdid.

The W: and Mary Yacht lies ready at Greenwich

to take on board the Rt Hon. the Ear) of Chesterfeld,

who is to embark tor the Hague next week, in order

to fin'th his Em!sffy, ana to take Icave of the States

Gene«l3 after which he wiilreturn for England in about

6weeks, P.

Early this morcing the Earl of Wilmington fer out

for Windsor, to :flift at a General Council, which is

to be hed there this day ; 2s did at the same time the

Karl of Godo phin tor the Lo'ge in Windsor-park, his

Lordship intending to reside there some time. did.

¥efterday Sir Rob. Walpole, Sir Wm. Yonge, &c. he'd

a Board of Treasury, at the Treasury Chamber, White-

ha’ = [bid

Yesterdey the Rt. Hon. the Lord Mayor held his

Court for the Conservation of ghe river Thames ar Fal-

ham and Putney, and din’d at the Bowling-grceen-houte

@n Putney-common. D P.

Oo the 12th instant died at his feat in Flinthhire, Ed-

w rd Conway, Fig; one of the Masters of the High

Court of Chancery. did.

Yesterday one Charles Stewart, a young Lad about

¥4 years of age, was apprehended with three more, on

Suspicion of being concerned with Hugh Morris and Ro-

ber: Johnfor, who were taken last sunday at Datchet ;

at which time Stewart was committed to New Prison,

when, not knowing Morris and Johnson were taken, he

impeached ‘hem, with about 14 more, which the Con-

Mables. &e are now making diligent search after : ‘This

pernicovs gang is reckoned to consist of near 4o in all,

who ulec ticquently to resort to Covent-garden every

evening. IJdid.

Yesterday 7 persons in the City and Liberty of Weft-

minster, were taken into custody on {ufpicion of street-.

robbing, upon the information of a boy about 16 years

0! age, who, together with another person, impeached

f..r 70 that they have been concerned with in several

robberies. D.F. ,

Yesterday one Hays was committed to the New Goal

in Southwark tor fodomy; and, we hea, he has im-

peachea 7 of his accomplices. Ibid.

Letters from Jamaica of the 25th of May advise, that

two Gvarde Costa’s were failed from Carthagena, one

of them with 10 Carriage, and 20 Swivel Guns, and

110 Men; the other with 8 Carriage and 16 Swivel

Guns, and 96 Men, and mann’d with about half Spani-

ards, the rest Mulattees and Negroes. The Captain of

one of the Guarde Costa’s declared, that they would

take all the Guiney Ships they met with, not belonging

to the South-Sea Company; and that theie Ships had

met with a Brigantine, the Hannah's Hope, William |

Annis, Nafter, bound from Philadelphia for Jamaica,

off the Faft end of Hispaniola, and catricd her into «

little Creek, call’d Catalona, and plunder’d her of Flour,

Hams, and ships’s stores, to the value of 450], sterling,

first cost, for whieh the Guarde Costa givé Capt. Annis

a receipt in {pamfth, promising to pay him when they

met next; and they duid they hud aCommission tor what

they did. - lod.

Portsmouth, Fuly 21. Onthe 17, came in the Fleece

Sloop, Roy, trom Dunkirk, with Brandy ; and fa led

the St. John Galliot, wetring for St. Mao, with lion

and Bale Goods trom Amsterdam, On the 9th came

in the Do'phin, Nairne, from kKiga, with Henp, On

the 20, the St. Anne Fly Boat, Anderson, from Long

Sound, with Dea's and Timber tor the Dock; the Do-

rothy and Em{worth Pinks, Marshai and Coleman, with

Coals; and failed the Fortune Gaitot, Luche, tor Ken.

ningsbourgh, in Baltaft. The berkey and Tran{po ts

remain at St. Hoilen’s waiting a wind, Here are in che

Harbour the Kent and Heétcr men ot war, and at Spit-

head the Advice, Kinial, and Suc ets, dard.

Yesterday the Court of Directois ot the East-!ndia

Compiny fat agrin at their house in Leacen-hail-freet,

to hear Mr. Wefle’s allegations made pood against the

superca:goes ; whereupon the court ordered, thar they

should celiver their answer in writing the next court

day, when it ts not coubred bur it will be to the tatis-

faction of the Company, and likewise to the honour

of the gen'lemen cenfured. C

On tuciday in the evening a gentleman’s servant, living at Finchicy, was attack’d by two foot-pads, going

over the Common, who took trom him a itiver watch

and buckles. and five Mhillings and six pence. One of

them cut hm on theleg with a knife, daying, he wou'd

hank him to prevent his purfuiog them. did.

The Reverend Mr. Warn'ord is presented by the

Dean and Chapter of Canterbury to the united Livings

of Aliballows, Breadftrect, and St. John’s the Fvange-

lift, which worthy incumbent intends to have prayers

every Wednesday and Friday at eleven o’ Clock, at All-

hallow’s Church, which has not been done there for up-

wards of 50 years pal}. He was invuéted last monday

eveningabout 70°Cieck. SF E.

On tuefday last Wm. Brothe:ton, Efg, was sworn in

Clerk of the Papers of Wood-itreet Uc mpter, before the

Rt. Hon. the Lord Mayor and Court ot Aldermen at

Guildhall, in the room of Matthew Lancaster, Eig; who

has retigned. L. E.

On thurfday last the Rev. Mr. Benjamin Archer was

presented by the Provost aad Fellows of King’s Co lege,

Cambridge, to Stowre Provost, in the room of «ne Rev.

Mr. Wray, deceiled, Mr. Sturges, the neat person in

turn refusing it. Ibid

The Rev. Mr Wikinson, Minister to the Savoy, is

gone down to Kent, to take possession ot two livings

that were given him by the late Ear] or Winchelsea the

night before he died. Ibid.

Laft night about 10 lewd men and women of the

Town were apprehended by the Constables belunging to

the reformation of manners, and being examined be-

tore Sir John Gonfon, they were committed Bridewell.

S.F.E.

On tuefday last a person who is supported by being

a Zany to several persons of quality, was secured ar

Tunbridge, for committing a rape on the body of a girl

of 8 years of age. ZL E,

Yesterday a gir] about 7 years of age was ty’d to a

tree in the fields, ncar Tottenham-court Turnpike, and

stripp’d, by a villain who had entic’d her out of town

for that purpose. S. f. E.

Late on monday night Iaft a Gentleman was robb’d

in a hackney-coach, the lower end of Barnaby-street,

Southwark, by a single streeterobber, who took from

him his watch, and about 12]. inmoney ; and then going to make off, the Coachman knock’d him down,

and took him with the watch and money in his pocke’,

and he was committed to the County Goal tor Surry.

His name is Jonathan Perry. WH’, E.

On tuefday morning about o’ Clock, Richard Dutton,

a lad of 16 years of age, apprentice to Mr, Varney, a

Butcher on Addle-bill, ttabb’d himf:!f ¢ times in the bel-

ly with a penknife. His cau! and guts thru themselves

thro’ the wounds, and he died soon ater. Tid.

Fripay, fuly 24. __

Lieutenant General Whetham hath kits’d the King’s

band on his being appointed General and Commander

in chief of the forces in Ireiand, in the room of the late

Lieutenant General Maccartney, with a Salary of 2¢00].

per ann. C. D.P.

Yesterdsy was he'd a Common-Counci', when forme

progreis was wnade in the orphan’s tax bill: Ady ape:

titican was predented to the Ceurt by Se foho Lyles

i

¢

‘

from John Elderton, Esq; common cryer, setting forti,:

that on his election into that office, he quitted his other

bafiness, and has since wholly appied himself thereto.

that by a late aét of parliament a considerable part of

his fees wete loft ; that his present salary is but 22).

16s. 8d. which, with all bis tees and perguitites, 3.

mount to about rgo!, per ann. and praying the Court

would take his Cafe into conficeration, and grant kim

an allowance tor the jupport of himself and tumily : The

Court resolved the faiary should be augmented, and ap.

pointed a Commitee ot 4 Alder:men and 8 Commoners

to conficer of it; as alo what fees were taken by

him, wire proper to be remitted The Aldermen were

Sir John Eyles, Sr John Wiliams, Kot. John Barnarg

and Geo. Champion, Eiq; D. 7.

Yeltcerday Margaret Crav was committed to Newgate

by Mr. Justice [ilcers, on the cath of Eixzaveth Lotice,

for stealing out of her lodgings a gold necklace dnd three

petticoats, C

Cn wednesday Mr. Bentley, a v ctualler near Bunhij!.

fie'ds, went inio the City to seceive dere money; oa

h.s revurn atout 1° at night, wes artack’o by + Foor.

peds at theend of Bunhiibrow, whorebb’d him of 14},

and a silver watch, and m de off ower Moc: ftielcs. 15/4.

Yesterdsy morning Mr. Tho. Andews, a itil.

ler, was iet upon by one foo. pad, be ween Hampitead

and Highgac, who hkid a Puito! to his breast, and de.

1 anded his movey, whch he gave bm, he then bid

him difmount, tciling him, he hid a pretty Mare, and

he must have her 5 accovsingiy he mountee, and made

off towards Highg.t Two Certierren coming by, he

relaed to therm his mi fortune, ang they itnmediately

pursued him, and touna by the description that be bad

roce full galiopthro’ the town, which ala: med dc vera,,who

went with them im puriuirof him 5 they came up With

him against Cranbury-houis, and charginy him with the

robbery, he drew out a pifto), anu dwere he wou'd kilj

the first man that came near him. He erdeavoured to

leap the Mare over a ditch into a field, which fhe would

not take; then he quitted her, and ieap’d the ditch, hice

cing them defiance; but one of them coming up with

a long gun, he surrender’d himéeit, and being carred be-

fore Justice Harvey, was by him committed to New-

gate His nameis Tho. Birchings, zd.

On wedoefday night Mr. Burrows, a noted Corn-

factor at Bear-key, coming from East-tarnet, was fer

+ upon by 3 foot-pads, who tock trom him 3 guincas and

some fiiver.. They were pursued as fa: as Hampitead,

but made their escapes, They are supposed, being young

tellows, to be'ong to a gang that has ihfefted that neigh-

bourhood for some time. Ldid.

Yesterday a men was taken up in Covent-garden, on

suspicion of committing a rape on an elderly woman;

and being examined before a Magistrate, was remanded

back to the round-house, in order to be examined again

this day. P.

Yesterday one Richard Edwin, alias Dickey Twankey,

commonly known by that name, was teken at a pudlick-

house in new-itreet, being one of the gang that Charles

Stewart belong’d to, and who was tsken on his informa-

tion, since his confinement in newgace, did.

Yesterday 4 men were seized in westminster, on the

infermaticn ot Charles Steward, a young lad about 16

years old, being all charged with havirg committed a

great number of Robberies between Hampstead and High-

gate, and those places and London, Jdid.

Yesterday morning a person was apprehended in 'fling-

ton, whither he had been pursued from Cane-wood,

where between 7 aad 8 o'clock he hid robbed a Gen-

tleman of igs, and his mare, which he quitted a little

before he was taken; he would not discover who he

was. D. fF.

Oxford, Fuly 2°. A person who before the late a& of

parliament practi:’d here as an attorney, and had become

fo terrible to his neighbours, that they gave him the

name of Devil, being since render’d incapabe of getting

money bj the law, fet up fora collector en the high-

way, where he was taken last night, and brought into

our Castle; and this morning the people expressd their

satisfaction, by ringing the bells, Ihi7 ———— Hees

to have becn but a poor Devil at rhe law, othersije be

would burdly have turivd Highwaymai.

“ SaTuRDAY, Fuly 2%.

On wednesday last, upwards of thirty soldiers wives

landed at Whiteha!), from Port{mou'h, who wou'd have

folowed their husbands as voluntiers on the intend. d ex-

pedition to Italy, but they proving to be very turbu-

lent and mutinous, were rejcGted by the officers, and

turn’d on shore, C.————Ths/e geo: women [ecm to

have been more dfpos'd to fighting, than ts consistent wita

paciick measures, This érings 19 my mind a fory of @

captain ef the train-bands, who, seeing a red-coat amongst

[Page 3.]

Si

pis men, dec ard with much wartith, that he was refolu'ed

so have no fold-crs in his company.

We are afiured from very good authority, that the

express fent on thurdday to the court of Spain, was to

demand the final and determin’d resolution of their Ca-

tholick Majesties, concerning the South-Sea Company’s

ship Prince William, now ready to {aii tor the Spanish

Weft-Indies ; and "tis thought that on the return of this

express, the Company will have the royal Cedula’s, and

the thip wil fail accordingly. P.B

Yesterday the court of directors of the hon. East-India

Company, had before them the affair of the super-car-

goes of the four ships lately arrived from China, in rela-

tion to the difference of the prices charged on tea; and

they came to a resolution to profecure the guilty with

the utmost vigour. Ibid.

Yesterday morning about fix o’ clock, a fire broke out

jn the dwelling house of Mr. Brooks a weaver in Hog.

lane, Shoreditch, which consumed the fame, and very

much damaged the two adjoining houses. did.

Yesterday in the afternoon, James and Joseph Black-

well, two Youths, fons to Mr. Blackwell at Lambeth,

were both drowned in the Thames, over-against Vaux-

hall, as they were washing themselves. The accident

was occasioned by their playing in the water with each

other, when they were close to one of the City Compa-

nies barges that lay off there, which fuckd them under

it. did.

They write from Fraufcoad in Cardiganshire, the {cat

of the Rt. Hon. the Lord Viscount Lisburne, that one

Mr. Banks an attorney of this City, and others, going to

execute ajudgment upon a tenant of the said nobleman’s,

the farmer fired a blunderbufs upon the officers, one of

whom was shot dead upon the spot. D. P.

A certain young Baronet of a good estate, having !ate-

ly married a young woman of a {mall fortune, livin

near Clare-market, soon after was taken ill of the small-

pox, and died about six weeks after the marriage, the

next of kin to the deceased, petition’d the court of chan-

cery this week for a commuiifion of enquiry, in order

to be satisfied whether fhe was with child, which we

hear was not obtained; but thus far it was granted, shat

the Petitioners may, if they please, appoint two women

to attend her curing the time of her. pregnancy, whce-

ther real or pretended, to prevent any unfair practices.

Ibid. ’

Tunbridge Wells, Fuly 23. Laft night Count Kinfki,

the impcrial minister, and his lady, came here witha

great retinue. Lord Chief Justice Raymond and Mr,

Justice Probyn, are expcéted here to morrow ; and will

proceed on faturday to Lewes; to hold the assizes tor the

county of Sussex. This placeis now very full. D.F.

Our advices from Rome take notice, that when it was

proclaimed abroad, that Cardinal Corlini was cleted

Pope, the news wasreceived Ly the peop'e with infinite

joy, he being aferion ef extraordinary virtue atid great

Merit. Likcwife that on the fifthot Ju'y, the cideft fon

of the Chevalier de Si. George, was taken ill of a pain

in his head; in a tew days after, it appcar’d to be the

small pox, but of a kind fore; it was the tenth day when

the letters came away; but the distemper not being at-

tended wich a fever, nor other bad fympioms, the phy-

ficians were of cpinion he was out of danger: upon this

occasion the Chevalier received the compliments of the

Roman Princes, the foreign ministers, and the other no-

bility, who expressed great {utisfaction at the news of

his recovery, being a youth of the most engaging beha-

viour. E. P.

Laft thurfday a woman who had been several years an

upper servant to the tishop of Durham, drowned her-

self in his Mordship’s horie pond. S. 7. E.

The fix Indian chiefs having quarreiled, and beat one

another, at their quarters, the Mermaid inn at Windsor,

they they have been order’d to leave the town, ZL. E.—

The St. James’s Evening calls them Indian Kings; but

this is not the first time that Kings have been confounded

with their Ministers.

Monpay, Fuly27.

Yesterday one John Laskin was committed to New-

gate by Justice Phillips, on the oath of Wm, Carter, for

robbing him of a gold ring and 27. which he took out

ot a drawer, when he was employed in white-washing

the house. P.

On faturday morning, between 6 and 7, a male child

of about 6 weels old, neatly wrapt up, was found ina

corner of Emerson’s-fie'ds, near Kensington-square. What

is very surpriling, it had no palate nor upper lip, nor

upper gum, but a piece of flesh joining to the nole, ex-

actly like a hog’s {nout, which comes down to the low-

er lip, almost covering the mouth. The child is other-

wife well favoured, and is supposed to have been dropt

@n account of this monttrous defe& andexcrefcence, and

1s put under thé care of the parith nurse, near the fa

the.inc wheel in Church‘lane, Kensington, where many

persons of curiosity go hourly to fie it DF.

This extraordinary birth is referred to the consideration of

those two learned Physictans, Dr. Cutaneous and Dr.

B.ynder,

Tuespay, Fuly 28.

Yesterday z of the South Sea Companys Green-

land ships came up the river aud went into the wet

dock at Dep:tord. "Tis said they have cattght 3 whalcs

apiece, C,

On sunday morning died at Stratford, the wife of

Justice Peck, did.

On i.turday in the evening Count Degenfield, with his

Lady, arrived at Greenwich from Holland, accompany’d

with M. de Newbourg, one of his Royal Highneis the

Prince of Wales’s lzte Governo:s: The Count, with his

retinue, dined on board the yacht on sunday, and yester-

day he fet out for Windsor, to wait on his Majesty ; and,

it is said, he is come with full power from his Prussian

Majesty to negotiate the marriages fo long talked of be-

twcen the two Courts. Ibid.

Yesterday one Peter Vivian was committed to New-

gate, by the Rt. Hon. the Lord Moyor, on the cath of

John Brainsford for assaulting him in the street, with an

intent to commit fedomy with him. bid.

The fine house in Greenwich-park, now possessed by

Sir John Jennings, Governor of Greenwich hospital, and

Ranger of the park there, is now flooring and teautifying, for the reception, as we hear, of his Royal High-

ness the Prince of Wales, and Sir John Jennings is to

have an apartment in that part of the College which is

new buidirg. P.

We hear there is, brine lately found for the making of

falt, within 2 miles of the City of Worcester; and the

ground it is discovered in being not above 70 yards front

the river Severn, it is believed it will be the greatest aud

mott profitable work in the Kingdom, it saving the

land carriage both of falrand coals. D,P.

~ Wepnesvbay, Fuly 92.

Information having been given to Sir John Gonfon of

2 gang of pick-pocket boys, to the number of :0, who

nightly infeft the Piazza’s in Covent-garden, the Strand,

Temple-bar, and orher streets thereabeuts, he issued out

his warrant for the searching out several Night-houtes

and Night-cellars, which harbour and entertain them ;

and several of this gang be.ng apprehended by the Con-

stables, 8 of the most notorious were on tuefdzy com-

mitted to Tothill-fields Bridewell, to hard labour: The

oldest of these ‘boys is mot above 13, and most of them

curs’d and {wore in a dreadful manner as they were cate

rying them to Bridewell. D.P.

From the Pegafus in Grub-street,

Our learned Brother Anodyne having informed us, that

the Daupnin and the three Princesses of France have

found great benefit from his famous Necklaces: it was

refoived that every Memb:r of this Society, who has

not yct cut his eye-teeth, should be oblig’d to purchate

one of the said Necklaces.

An EPIGRAM.

_ hanish far an Eaglith Bifthop hence,

himself descends to Evidence;

Who, against Chartres {wear, he high’y blames,

And Knighthood’s thield protects the * Squireof Dames.

Say, where is most his maschle/s Virtue teen?

As then th’ InrorMer, or as now the Screen!

* A vile in Chav cer,

Seine

FOREIGN NEWS.

THurspay, Fuly 23.

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from France.

Venice, July 3. NS. Our last letters from Constan-

tinople do not confirm the escape of Sultan Efreff to

that Capital, as it was reported, On the contrary, it is

certain Prince Thamas has nothing to {ear from that U-

furper’s party, if credit may be given to the letters that

several Turkish Merchants have received from Ifpahan;

the substance of which is this: That, after thedeteat of

Sultan Effeff, aud the surrender of If{pahan, Prince Tha-

mas marched to besiege the City ot Schiras, fo famous

for its exquisite wines; that he form’d the fiege with an

army of 50,000 men; that the garrison making an ob-

ftinate defence, he caused a {caflold to be ere&ted with-

in fight of the inhabitants, and having made Suan Ef-

reff get upon it, who was taken on the entrance of Geor-

gia by one of Prince Thamas’s Lieutenant Generals, he

ordered him to be flead alive with curry-combs : That

he afterwards caused his head to be fluck upon a pole

in fight of the ramparts: That the garrison fill refuting

cS . a?

to surrender, notwithfanding the death of their Pror

tector, Prince Thamas made a general storm, which wae .

fo well conduéted, that his woops rendered themf-lves

masters of the place, and put the garrison to the {word

That a Brother ot Prince Thamas, who in the late re-.

voiutions had embraced the party of Efreff, baving thé

good fortune to escape the general slaughter, was go

away, and was suppoied to be gone towards Contlanti-

opie: That since the conqaeft of Schiras, the other towns

possessed by the rebels had submitted to the conqueror,

{o that the party of the Agufins or Aquanis, the mot

warlike people ot Persia, who adhered to Miriweys, aad

atterwards to Effeff, are entirely destroyed and {cate

tered. C, , , ;

Compeigne, Fuly 27. N.S. On the 28th instane, the

King coatir'd on the Duke de Charoft, who had been

hs Majesty’s Governour, the. place-of President of the

Royal Council of Finances, vacant by the death of the

Mai shall Duke de Villeroy. it brings in about §00,0c0

Livres a year. Ibid, !

Paris, July 21. M. de Roche Allard, who was said

to be gone hence, was itill here yesterday ; however they

continue to assure us, that orders have been {ent for the

departure of the fuccours promis’d to Spain, in order to

undertake the expeditidn to Italy this year. _ Letters

trom Compeigne advise, that the imperial mivifters con-

tinue to have frequént conferences with Cardinal de

Fleury 5 and there are people here who ftui fatter them-

{elves with {ceing dome expedient. found out for pre-

venting a war; and on this account all the officers are

to remain in their regiments tid further orders, D. F.

Fripvay, Fuly 24.

Extra of a Letter from Leghorn, dated the’ 25th of

July, 1730, N.S.

UR Governor has received otders from the prime

Minister at Florence, to acquaint the Merchants

and others, who are under any uneafiness on account

of the present situation of publick affairs, that the Great

Duke is desermined to take care, not only of their, pers

fons, but effects, to the utmcft of his power: and it

is not doubted but the new Pope, who is a native of

Florence, will be able to bring about an accommodations

and prevent the mifchiefs with which we haye been

threaten’d. D.F.

Monpay, Fuly 20.

On Saturday arrived the Mail due from Holland; as did

yesterday that from France. |

Berlin, Fuly 2x. They write from the New Mark

and from Brandenbvsg, and Soxan Vandalia, that no

words can exprei{s the ,devaftation that is made there

by Grafshoppers. They come by millions in 4 or §

columns, devouring in a night al the corn upon the

ground, and forraging the meadows to such a degree,

that they hardly leave a blade of Grafs. ‘They get into

the very houses, and fill every part of them; nor is it

possible to destroy them, for tho’ they bury them by

millions, their nimber seems not to be diminish'd. They

{wam over the river Oder, end are come between 3

German miles of Wufterhaufer, the King’s hunting pa-

lace; but we hope the great rains we have had for jome

days past, will destroy those destructive infe2s. The

defolation among the country people is beyond expressi-

on, seeing them{clves frustrated in 24 hours of the finelt

barVett they could have wished. C.

Paris, Fly »8. Some days ago the Cardinal de Fleury

dispatched a Courier to Cazalla, with the Emperor's new

proposa's to prevent a rupture, and cll that Courier re.

tarns with the King of Spain’s answer, the Emperor’s

Ministers have frequent conferences with thoie of the

allies, and there is no more talk of the departure of the

fuccours promised to Spain; fo that we have {till great

hopes of a {peedy accommodation. Jdid.

Tuesvay, Fuly 28.

This day arrived a Mail from Holland.

Mila, fuly 15. A magazine is about to be form'd at

Pianero, on the frontiers of Tuscany, for the imperial

troops, which are to enter that dutchy in case of necef-

fity, and another in Romania fer the woops im the King-

dom of Naples.

The Course of the Exchonge.

Amsterdam 34 9 Madrid qz a 8th

Ditto at Sight 34 6 Bilboa 42

Rotterdam 34 19 Leghorn go 3 «ths

Antwerp 35 3 Genoa $4 .

Hamburgh 33 4

Parisat tight 32 1 half

Bourdeaus at fight 32 1 3.h

Cadiz 4:

Venice 4831 half

Lisbon ¢ s.6d.

Portoss. ¢d.

Dublin 1@ 1 4th

[Page 4.]

Prides of Goods at Bear Key on Monday.

oo per Quarter per Quartes

at 20 to 28 Hog Peas —~ 15 to 19

=7t —— 12 to 13 Boiling Peas—z0 to 23

{ Barley ——<-13 to 14 6; Pale Mat — 12 to z0

| Oats —— 8 to 15 Brown Malt— 14 to 19

€ Horse Beans 16 to zg) =| Tares ———— 18 to 2

Coals 218, to 226. 6d. per Chaldron.

fi Hops 1728 — 18s. to 25s. per Hundred.

ops 1729 — 28s. to 4¢s. per Hundred.

Rape Seed 12]. to 12]. tos. per Laft,

On Tuesday Stocks were

South-Sea 103 § 8ths, 103 1 half, 103 3 4ths, a7

Sths. for the Opening. South Sea Annuity 107 1 Sth.

Bank 142. India 184, 1 4th, 184 1 half, 184, 185

1 4th, without the Dividend. Three per Cent. Annuity

95 14th. Million Bank 108. African 44» York Buildings 18 £ qth. Royal Assurance (1001. paid in) 91.

London ditto (131. paid in) 12. Bank Circulation 8).

is s. South Sea Bonds 51.25. India ditto 5 1. 11s.

English Copper 31.1058. Welth ditto 11. 105,

eo

ADVERTISEMENTS.

Now in the Press,

_And speedily will be published.

HE Lifeof MOHAMED. Translated from the

French of the Count of Bonlainvilliers, Author of

The present State of France, and the historical Memoirs

thereto subjoin’d,

P Just published,

(Price Three Shillings bound.)

HE Art of Heraldry. Containing 1. The Original

and Universality of Arms and Ensigns, wit: their

Use and Necessity; their Blazon, Diftribution, Abatements,

and Rewasds of Honour, Il. Of diverse kinds of Et-

cotcheons, and of the bearing or using the Ordinaries in

Coat Armour. UI, Of Coat Armour form’d of Artificial

Things, whether Civil, Ecclesiastical, Military or Marine,

such as are made by m2n, or for his Use. IV. Of Charg¢s

in Coat Armour form’d of Coleftials, as the Sun, Moon,

Stars, Angels, &c. Of Vegetables, as Trees, Flowers,

Viants, Fruits, &c. Of the Parts of Man's Body, as the

Hands, Legs, Arms, Heart, &c. Of Animals, as Lyons

Tygers, Ho.fes, Stags, &c. in Whole and in Parts. V. Of

arges from Fowls and Birds of all Sorts, in Whole and

in Parts. VI, Of Charges from Fithes of all Kinds, in Whole

and in Parts. VII.Of Charges from Monstrous Animals, in

Whole and in Parts. Embellifh’d with For.y Copper

- Plates, containing above 900 Coats of Arms of the Nobi-

licy and Gentry of Great Britain and Ireland, curiously

engraven, with their particular Descriptions, and by whom

borne, Interipers'd with the Natural History of the fe-

veral Species of Birds, Beasts, Fishes, Vegetables» &c.

comprehended: therein. Together with Occasional Expli-

catiuns of all the Terms used in the Science of Heraldry,

and peculiar thereto. To which is prefix’d, An Alphabe-

tical Lift of the Names of the Families whose Coats are

delineated in the Book, with References tu the Pages where

they are to befound. Printed for J Osborn» near Dock-

head, in Southwark: And Sold by A. Bettcsworth in Pa-

ter-Nofter Row, and F, Cogan at the Middle Temple

Gate, Fleet-street. 1730.

This Day is published,

N Ode. Inferibed to his Grace the Duke of Buckingham, on his embarking for France. By Joh@

Lockman. |

O qu fontibus integris

Gaudes, apricos ne€te flores,

Neée meo Lamiz coronams

Pimplea dulcis. Horat.

Printed for Lawton Gilliver, at Homer's Head, a-

gainst St. Dunstan’s Church in Flect-street ; price 4d.

Where may be had, just published,

Blasphemy as old as the Creation, or the Newgate

Divine. A Satire. Address’d to the modern Advocates of

Irreligion, Prophaneness and Infidelity. By a Gentleman

and a Christian.

Quod fi in hoc erro, quod animos hominum immortales

effé credam, libenter erro: Nec mihi hune errorem,

quo delestor, dum vivo, extorqueii volo, animas effe

immortales,- - quicquid dixit, Omaium Anima-

rum Socius W. Tindall. Tully.

A LS O

Notes and Epigrams. -

A new Edition of the Art of Polisicks, with a curious

Frontispiece. Rifum teneatis Amici ?

Two Epifttles to Mr. Pope, concerning the Authors of

the Age. By the Author of the Universal Passions,

The Phe dees A Naval Lvrick. By the fame Author.

An Epistle to the Earl of Chesterfield on the present Si-

tuation of Affuirs.

A new Edition of the Dunciad, with some additional -

This Week will be publish’d,

A new Edition, neatly printed in 12mo. of

H E Works of Mr. William Congreve, In three Vo-

lumes, Confifting of his Plays and Poems, Printed

foc J. Tonfon in the Strand, Where likewise may be had,

just publish’d, -

The Second Edition of Mr. Addifyn’s Works, in 4 Vols.

4to. With complea. Indexes, ih ;

— His Ey idences of the Christian Religion, &c. in 12mo.

The Second Editien of Dr. Mandeville’s Treatise of H y-

pomnendstack and Hyfterick Diseases. Corretted and en-

arg’d,

Shuckford’s Conn¢€tion of the sacred and prophane Hi-

story. In two Vols. %vo. :

he Second Edition of Fonrenell’s Dialogucs of the Dead,

Translated from the French by the late John Hughes, Esq;

Milton’s Paradise loit and rega:n’d, in 2 Vols 8vo.

The Seventh Edition of Echard’s Ecclesiastical History,

in two Volumes, 8vo. , ;

The Tenth Edition of Pridcaux’s Conncétion, in 4 Vols,

With Cuts and Maps, &vo.

This Day is published,

Numb. II. for the Month of June, of

HY? Literaria : Or, an exaét and carly Account of

=o valuable Books published in the several

arts of Europe,

Horiferis ut apes in faltibus omnia Libant

Omnia nos itidem, Lucret.

Printed for N. Prev ft, over against Southampton-firect

in the Stran}, and E. Symon_in Cornhill, and fold by

J.Crokatt and L Gilliver in Fleet-ftrect. To which is

added, The present Sate of Learning, Extraéts of feve-

ral Letters from Paris, Lyons, Zurich, and a Catalogue

of new Books imported during the said Month of June,

by N. Prevost and Comp.

Where may be had, N ae. I]. for the Month of

ay, an ,

A new History of England, in English and French, by

Questions and Answer, for the Use of Schools, extracted

from Mr. Rapin Thoyras, 1°.

The fame Book in English alone.

Tabula Chronologica Historia Sinice Connexa cum Cyclo qui

vulgo Kia Tfe Dicitur, in 3 sheets, Rome 1729.

This Day is published,

HE 2d and 4th Volumes of Sermons by Samuel

Clarke, D. D. late Reétor of St. James’s Westmin-

fter; published from the Author’s MSS. By John

Clarke, D. D. Dean of Sarum. Vol. IV

Ol. e

Vol. IIE. :

OF the Liberty of moral A- | OF that Belief which is ne-

ecffary to Baptism.

ents,

A virtuous Mind the best; The Design and End of

help to understand true} Baptiim is Newneis of

Religion. Life, See

The practice of Morality | Of being baptized into the

- leadsto the practice of the Name of any Person.

Gospel. The Nature, End and De-

The Character of a good sign of the Holy Com-

Man. munion,

The Nature of human afti- | Of Ine ‘eee Church of

ons. rrift.

How to judge of moral A&ti- Of the Number of those that

ons. shall be faved.

The Nature of religious | The Qualifications of those

Truths. that thall be faved.

That the Terms of Salva

tion are offered to all

en.

The Qualifications necessa-

Of Christ’s calling Sinners

to Repentance.

The Excellency of moral

ualifications.

Of Humility. _, ry to receive the Terms of

Of poverty of Spirit. Salvation.

ens not accepting the

Terms of Salvation is

from themselves.

OF the Nature of true Chri-

ftian Z<al.

Of the Virtue of Charity.

Thenature of relative Duties

The Inconsistency of the |

Love of God with the

Love of the World. _.

The Folly of mocking at Sin.

Printed for James and John Knapton, at the Crown in

St. Paul’s Church-yard.

BOOKS printed and fold by John Brotherton ar the

Bible next the three Tun Tavern in Cornhill.

Ddifon’s Works, 4 Vol. | King’s H. Gods,

in 4to.

Gay’s Fables.

Mande vill’s Free Thoughts

—— Ditto Fable of the Bees,

2 Vol.

DittoVirgin unmask’d.

Ditto Hy pochondriack

Boyer’s Telemachus, 2 Vol.

Pilgrim’s Progress.

Musical Dictionary.

Buckingha’s Works, 2 Vol. :

Boyer’s Dittionary abridge’d, | Ovid’s Epistles.

Pope’s Homer’s Iliad, 6 Vol Ditto Artof Love,

——Ditto Odyfy’s, 5 Vol. | Abelard’s Letters.

Gordon’s Geog. Grammar,

Milton’s Paradise loft,

Ditto rezain’d.

Guardians, 2 Vol,

Cooke’s Detettion, 3 Vol.

Roileau Oeuvre Poetique,

Colleétion of Novels,

Shakespear’s Plays,

Blair’s Sermons, § Vol: 8vo,

Plutarch’s Lives,8 Vol. 8vo.

Clarendon’s History, 6 Vol.

This Day is publified, ina neat pocket Volume, Pries 2 ¢

6d. the second Edition with Additions of °

H E Intelligencer. By the celebrated Author of the

Tale of a Tub.

Omne vafer vitium videnti Flaccus amico

Tang, & Adm'ffus curcum precordialudit, Perf.

Containing, Theinhetp.table Temper of *Squire Wether,---

A Vindication of Mr. Gay, and the Beggar’s Opera, -..-.

The Folly of Gaming. A Description of what the

World calls Dilcretion. A RKeprefentation of the

present Condition of Ireland. The s of

Corufodes and Eugenio. ialogue between Mul-

iniz and Timothy. The foolish Methods of Edu-

ion among the Nobility. >Tim, and Gay’s Fables,

---- Proposals in Prose and Verse for an universal View

of the eminent Writers of the holy Scriptures. Sir

Ralph the Patriot turn’d Courtier——The Art of Story-

telling. Promethus’s Artof Man-making, and the

Tale of a T—d. —— The Services the Draper has

done his Country, and the Steps taken to ruin it-——~

The Adventures of the three Brothers, George, Patrick

and Andrew. The Marks of lreland’s Poverty

shewn to be evident Proofs of its Riches. St. An-

drew’s Day, and the Draper’s Birth-day——— The Hard.

ships of the Irish being deprived of their Silver, and de.

coy'd into America. Dean Smedley gone to feek

his Fortune-—The Pheasant and the Lark: A Fable,

Printed tor, and fold by Francis Cogan, at the Middle.

temple-gate in Flect-street, :

Where may be had,

The Life of the Right Reverend Dr. White Kennett,

late Bishop of Peterborough; with several original Let-

ters of the late Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr. Tennison ;

the late Earl of Sunderland ; Bishop Kennet, &c. and some

curious original Papers and Records, never before pub-

lished. And also

The Foreigaer’s Guide : Or, a necessary and instructive

Companion, both for the Foreigner and Native, in their

mc through the Citics of London and Westminster,

iving,

1ft, A general Description of these two Cities, with an

Account of their respective Government,

adly. A Description of the Royal Palaces, Noblemens

Hoxfes, publick Buildings, Churches, Streets, § uares,

and the most remarkable Places ia and near the famous

Metropolis : With an Account of the Inns ef Court, Royal

Society, publick Walks, Diversions, remarkable Days,

Court Days, Post Days. And,

3dly. A Description of the several Villages in the Neigh-

bourhood ; as Chelsea, Kensington, Richmond, Green,

wich, Woolwich, Hampstead ; and also others more re-

mote, viz. Hampton-court, Windsor, Oxford, Cambridge-

Blenheim, New-market Horse-racks, Epsom, Tunbridge,

Bath. And,

thly. An Account of the Rates of Coaches, Watermen ;

| also the Rates of Post-horses ; with the Roads ta

Dover and Harwich.

Very useful and entertaining both to Foreigner and Na-

tive, and done into English and French.

ALSO

LOVE LETTERS on all Occasions, lately paf-

fed between Persons of Diftin€tion. Colleéted by Mrs.

Eliza Haywood. ;

Pleasure with Sorrow, Peace with War allay’d,

Liberty fetter’d, Hope by Fear difmay-d 5

Imbitter’d Honey, Earnest mix’d with Play

Art, Love! the Emblem of thy fov’reign Sway.

The Celestial Anodyne Tinéture: Or, The Great Paia-

Eafing Medicine,

RY d and approv'd of for its wone

derful and never-failing Success,

in giving immediate Ease and Reliet

in all manner of Pains, either inward

or outward, and is the most certain Re-

medy in the World for a fure and

speedy Cure of the Cholick, and

expelling Wind, Gripes and Pains

in the Stomach, the Pleurify, fticches or pains in the

fide, back, loins, or any other parts Rheumatick Ail-

ments, which cause pain and dolor, It hath given

ease to a Miracle, when all other Remedies have tail’d;

In the Gravel and Stone in the Kidneys, it gives ease

forthwith, and brings them away to Admiration. It also

facilitates and caufts g speedy Delivery in Child-birth.

*Tis no sor trifling thing to allure the World with, but

a_real and well-experienced Medicine, not a€ting by Stu-

ifa€tion (as Opiates) but by a friendly, balsamick, and

ubtile Nature, pacifying the most severe and terrible racking pains, and Carries off the cause, not by purging, but

by Transpiration, by Urine, or breaking Wind. No Fu:-

mily ought to be without it; and used outwardly it cures

Swellings, Aches, Pains, Numbness or Weakness of the

Joints; “tis excellent for Cramps, and all other faged In-

—— éffe€ting Wonders in Agues, Fevers, Small-

pox, xc.

It is sold only by Mr. PARKER, Printer, at his

House in Salisbury-Court, or by such persons as he shall

depute, at Fighteen-pence a Bottle, with printetl Directi-

ons ; and, if requested, will be brought to any person, by

the Hawker who sells his Penny Post.

Note, *Tis seal'd as above, to prevent Counterfeits.

LONDON: Printed by Mr. Moore, for Captain Gulliver, near the Temple, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in.

[Price Two Pence.]

