The Grub-street Journal.

Numb. 35.

Thursday, SEPTEMBER 3, 1730.

qrue to the bottom, fee Concanen creep,

A cold, long-winded, native of the deep!

No noise, no fir, no motion cant thou make

gy’ unconjeious flood sleeps o’er thee like a lake.

Dunciad. B. II.

To the Author of the Grub-street Journal.

eee we I’ was but lately that I met with a Book

called the Specu/ati/?, though by Enquiry

I find it has been above a month privately

dispersed (in the manner proper to Libels)

and hath crept about, in that blind way,

as far as it had Strength to go. I found

it to be a great fraud and imposition on

she Sub/cribers; being no other than a wretched Relique,

atched up from the //’recks of Britijhand London Journals.

No doubt it will soon be (like its Author) ¢o be fold, to

more than will buy it: In some weeks, it will be crying

out for help in the Advertisements, under the uiual and

laudable form of, @ fecu Copies of tire Speculatitts eing yet

left undifpojed of, may be bad at - As Iain very {ure

hereof, it makes it not quite impertinent, to take a little

notice even of such a thing as this.

The man has faced his o/d Rages with a Btt of Prefacey

La»

Aly

and truly not at all an unneceffiry ones being to apologize

for certain unlucky Inconfifencies, of himielf and his Bro-

ther Fournalifts, in their Parties, Principles and Friend:

ips: Thete he charitably accounts for, from their youth, |

want of Experience, Knowledge and Judginent, in what

they write about 5 and other such Innocent Caujes. There |

is no question, these Authors may, and do, change their

their Mind: It were only to be wish’d he had teld us, at

what price? ;

Itis much, that any Writer fo concerned for his good

game, should still continue to Write without his Name?

But I can assure the Publick he is not only a Gentleman,

but a Gentleman of the Dunciad: The Annotations men-

tion him under the name ot C xe

Scurrilities in the Fournals: This he is much troubled

about; though (whether out of great Shame-facedne/s, or

being fo required by his Bookseller) he is as tearful to name

the Dunciad as to name him/fe/f. But the Scurrilities he

utterly denies, and at the same time wilely prints a Jour-

nal-full on Dr. Swift and . r. Pope. By which one thing

at least said of him by that Annotator seems to be true,

namely, that he is an [ri/bmran.

That Journal is dated Novemb. 25, 1727, (« year before

the Dunciad came out.) It fays of Mr. P ~- that he had

often been concern’d with Bookje/lers in fobs and Frauds.

Thave Authority to fay, that this C xe ~ » (if fuck be his

name) is Seurri/ous and a Lyers and he must be content

With that Appellation, unless he proves what he asserts.

Some Slanders of the {ame fort have 'neen diiproved since

that Time, in the Te/imonies before the Dunciad: But these

Gentlemen never refraZ# on any Con'viétion but one.

The next Lye he tells, he may think the more fate, as

the person 1s firce dead. He represents Dr. Sw —- and Mr.

P— to have abused Mr. Congreve, in these Words. ¢ It

* may happen to those who ve.nt praise or ceniure too pre-

* cipitately, as it did to am eminent English Poet, who ce

* lebrated a young Nob/zman upon erecting Dryden's Monu-

‘ment, upon a Proraife ‘which his Lordship forgot "till it

* was done by another. ’

Whoever Writes of Men and Faéts, ought firit to know

some thing of them: This Paragraph totidem Verdis, was

inserted at Mr Congrece’s own desire, Who was willing That

Fact should be made known, to account for what he had

written. Mr. Cofigreve maintained for above ‘Twenty

Years, an entire friendship with both these Gentlemen 5 and

is known to lmve lived, with Mr. Pope particularly in itriet

Intimacy to his death.

The above-mention’d Notes to the Dunciad give a fur-

ther account of this Jri/-zan, which he is content to pats

in Silence, viz. * That he was (as we fee he fill continues

* an Anonymous Slandererand Publisher of other Men's Sian-

® ders, on Dr.Swift, To Wuom He Hap ParticuLar

: Obligations. ’ This Truth is known to the Reverend

tr. De- y, and we can (it he pleases) name others, who

Will attest how he returned them, as Well by his own Scur

tilities, as by forwarding to the Preis thole of A cle, &c.

Ut that it is sufficiently teen, by cailing an Eye on this

Very Fournal he here reprints. -

To conclude, with whatever Neglect we would pals by

—M, asa Writer of |

| ting than titillating Satyrift, Butler.

such Men as Writers, (and far be it from us, to diflyrb that

Silence which all the world besides observes toward their

Works) yet it is the concern of all Mankind to expoie them

as Publilbers of Faljities, and Defamers of Superior Chara-

fers. Theretore that the said C-— me -—m (if such be his

name) is an immoral Man, is what every Reader ought to

be told; that he is a du// one is what every Reader can find.

To Mr. Bavius, Secretary to the Grubzan Society.

SIR,

‘ » OUR industrious tho’ feeble Efforts towards Criticism,

' mianifefted by some fo-fo Emendations of Milton and

_ Chaucer, have prevaiied upon my known Humanity to en-

rich your Paper, and.eflavlit the Reputation of your So-

ciety in their Critical Capacity, by the Communication of

a Till-this-Day-unheard-of Correction of that no leis jugula-

See the following Lines

of the firtt Canto of the firii Part of Hudibrafs, where the

Author describes his Knight’s Accoutrements. L. 375.

This Sword a Dagger had bis Pages

That was but little for bis Age:

And therefore waited on bim /a,

As Dwarfs upon KnightieErrant de.

Tt was a lerviceable Dudgeon,

Either for Fighting, or for Drudging.

What Sense is there, my Bavy, in the Word Dudgeon ?

None I fay, none at all. It mutt therefore and thall be

read Durgen, an admirable old English Word, signifying

a Dwart, and every whit as good a Rhythm in Doggrel.

But be that as it will, Butler beyond all doubt did write,

or certainly ought to have writ it thus,

It was a serviceable Durgen.

T know not whet! er the egregious Ofcitancy of the T ran-

feriber or Publishers moves mott to Conpaffion or Laugh-

ter; could I indulge my telf in being jocular on fo {serious

and important a Subject, I could fay, that I took this mon-

ftrous Hallucination in Dudgeon. Blundering Rafeals! Did

they not know that Dudgeon signifies a vehement Excan-

deicence of the Mind, which might be evinced by a super-

abundance of Quotations from this very Author, but let the

firit Line of the firit Canto of the first Book suffice.

When civil Du dete 4 first LOW hig 4,

I am sensible there are some, who would justifie the vul-

gar Reading by that nite Proverbial Phrase, to wear a Dud-

geon [Dagger] by one’s Side, but alafs! what ignorant

Wretches are these! Iam confident that Mr. Mevius ‘if he

has any Sapience for true Critici{ia) mult dare manus ludens

to this Correction; his right Eye mutt leap for Joy, to fee

with what Perfpicacity I have rubb'd off the corrofive Rutt

of Obfoleteness trom this significant Word, and rettored it

to its antient Lustre and Dignity.

TrinityeCollege, Cam Tam, Your Faithful Ally,

bridge, Aug. 23, 1739.

Sunday Afternvony in

Chappel-Time.

ZOILUS.

SIR,

HE favourable Reception your Kentish Inscription met

with from the learned World encourages me to com.

municate one, which was lately discovered by an ingenious

Antiquary not far from Norwich, and which I think no leds

curloys than that you have already published,

gE. D. ©. &.S. 1. %. T.

N.Y. L.O. T.

I have not attempted to imitate the Letters, but assure

you that it is otherwise exactly copied: If you think it

worth a Place in your Journal, I hope some of your worthy

Society will favour the Curious with a Dissertation on this

uncommon $tone, which I despair of And ing in Gruter

or Cainbden, and it will oblige,

oon

Sir, que

£1 ON DO

THURSDAY, Ang. 27.

The King was pleated to order the French express that

brought the news of the Duke of Anjous birth, 100 gui-

neas. P.

N.

Yesterday the Court of Directors of the Hon. East-India |

Company agreed to take up 14 ships for the carrying on

the trade for the year as Ibid Letts

The fame day a bill of indiétment was found at the fef-

fions in Guildhall against Thomas Haffél, who did belong

to the General Pott Office, fot opening a letter, and felo-

niously taking out of it a bank note. C. :

This evening or to morrow morning, Mr. Baron Tlioms

fon came to town from Tunbridge. P. - Tonce in-

tended to have made a remark on this learned paragraphs

but shall defer it till this morning or last night.

"Tis now said that the five young highwaymen in Reading

gaol will not be tried this next feflions at the Old Baily $

but will, for some reasons, be confined till the next af-

ter. D.P.

Fripay, Aug. 28.

Yesterday the anci

ient society of archers that meets week«

ly at the ‘Three Tons in Lamb’s Conduit-fields, invited thé

Indian King, &c. to come and {ee them shoot with bows

and arrows at Targots, when every man_ performed with

great dexterity and judgment. ‘The King and those of

his attendance did alio fhioot, but they did not perform fo

well as was expected, it being the weapons of war used in

their country; but they said that our bows and arrows

differed from theirs. P.

Mr. Talbot Young, one of the Gentlemen of his Ma-

jesty’s Chappel Royal, is made one of the singing men be-

longing to Westminster-Abbey, in the room of Mr. Ede

wards, deceaied. Jéid.

We hear a discovery was lately made to the Directors of

Greenwich Hospital of a considerable flim of money appro-

priated by act of parliament for the {aid hospital, said to

have been {ecreted ever since the last wars and that they

are now inquiring into that affair. D. P.

SATURDAY, Aug. 29. ;,

The Eyles Eait-India ship from Fort St. George and

Bengal, is arrived at Portiimouth; fhe parted with the

Grantham the 17th infiant: She left at St. Helena, June

25, ‘he Wyndham, Greenwich, and Marlborough; the

chief Mate of the latter died in his voyage home. C.

There is advice by the taid ship, that the Princess Cas

roline, an English floop, had taken Captain Cucmes, Com-

mander of one of the Ostend ships, after exchanging fe-

veral shot; and he was afterwards kept prisonet at Ben-

gal. lbid.

A report having been {pread about the town of *‘r. Al-

derman Parions having been shot at Paris, we ure assured

that the iame is without foundation, and that he is in

perfect health, he being expected in England, with his

Lady and Family, about the 10th of next month: Jé/d. ,

Yesterday morning Mr. Woodyer that keeps the hing’s

Arms tavern on Ludgate-hill, having had some words with

his wife, and being under fonie discontent of mind, cut

his throat; but it is hoped he may recover, being under

the hands of a very abic Surgeon. = /d/d.

One hundred and forty bills of imdiétinent have beert

found by the €#rand Jury at Hick’s Hall since wednesday

lat. P.

Yesterday the sessions began at the Old Baily, and the

Court fat very late on the tryal of the two Willis’s; whe

were acquitted. L//d.

Monoay, Aug. 3F. )

By the fire that broke out at eleven o° clock on friday

night in Watling-flreet, near the corner of Bow-lane, thice

houses were burnt down, the house of Mr. Cornwall, a

Tobacconiit, where it is said it begin; the house of Mr.

Goftelow, a Diltiller, and that of Dr. Douglas, that Jay

backward; some other houses were much damaged. C.

On iaturday last at the fefions in the Old Bailey, thé

following Malefaétors were conitall® convicted, viz. Gil-

bert Laurence, on the oath of Paul Oliver, for torcibl

committing with him the unnatural fin of Sodomy; An-

drew Dalton, for flealing from John Rawlings a horse, a

gold headed cane, and other things 3 Nichclas Gilbourne,

tor robbing John Hall, near Paddington, of 40 yards of

silk and 4 pair of itockings. Jéid. and D. P.

On fatarday Mr. Hafiel’s tryal came on at the Old Baily;

for defiauding the Poit-Office of a Bank Note, when he

moved by Council, that it might be deterred till the

next Sessions; and on a person’s making oath that the

most material evidence he had was a great way off, the

Court granted his reaucit. § C.

‘Fhe curious marble Statue of King Charles If. which

stood in the middle of the Royal-Exchange, and which,

has been taken down in order to be repaired and beautie

fied, was on faturday lait replaced om a moze devated pe-

[Page 2.]

déftal than the former, at the ree" of the company of

Merchant adventurers of England, of which John Hanbury,

P-Bigs isGovernor. P.

> *h efterday a boy about twelve years old, a fon to a

Whip-maket in King-ftréet, Weftfninster, being in a wher-

ae near the Privy-garden, fell over-board, and pitched un-

Meer alighter, and was drowned; his father hearing of it

aemment there; but upon the fight of his fon he fell in {trong

Monvulfions, fo that his life is in danger. bid.

mS Late on faturday night an Irish man was surprized in

M70 indecent manner with a woman on a shop window

> rear the George-inn in Drury-lane; and yesterday morn-

ing was carried before Sir John Gonfon, and by him both

were committed to Tothill-fields Bridewell. id.

Also the fame night, about seven young women, who

walk the streets in the neighbourhood of Drury-lane, and

Could give no satisfactory account of their manner of liv-

ing, were, by the said Gentleman, who fate at the Vettry

house in S. Clement’s Churcheyard on sunday morning,

committed to the same place, there to be kept to hard

labour. did.

Col. Charteris having agreed with the Sheriffs of

London and Middlesex, as also with the High Bailiff

of Westminster, for the effects by them seized on his being

¢onviéted of felony, went a few days since with them

to the South-Sea house, and fold his Stock in the said Com-

pany, and then paid them the composition-money, viz.

x

To William Morrice, Esq; 5000 l.

To Mr. Sheriff Barber —- 16sol.

To Sir John Williams - 16501. D.F.

Mary Harvey, alias Sinclair, alias Phillips, alias Mac Caig,

a noted Virago, who hes been fo frequently mentioned

in the News papers for the exercise fhe has given to the

— of the Peace in Westminster, was on friday lait

rought up from the Gate-house to the Sessions-house in

the Old Baily, to give evidence against Michael and John

Willis’s, upon the indiétment fhe preferred against them

the last feflions, for robbing her of 3 gold rings on the

king’s highway in the parish of St. James’s, Westminster,

the Willis’s having surrendred themselves to take their trial

on that indi&tment. Her behaviour there was some what

more modest than usual, through the indefatigable pains of

Mr. Serjeant Raby, who found himself very often obliged

to threaten her with confinement, for dilturbing the pro-

ceedings of the court on the trial, which by the help of her

interruptions lafted several hours, at the conclusion where-

of the Willis’s were honourably acquitted, and fhe returned

to her lodgings at the gatehouse. D. 7. This lady

seems to have behaved indeed with aa unufaal modetty :

otherwise there would have been no occasion for those indee

fatigable pains of Mr. Serjeant Raby.

His majesty having been pleased to grant unto the right

honourable William Flemming, Lord Baron of Slane in the

kingdom of Ireland, a pension of 4001. per ann. upon the

establishment of that kingdom, a warrant has passed the

treasury and signet offices last week; and on thurfday Jatt

his Lordship had the honour to kifs his majesty’s hand, be-

ing introduced by the right honourable the Earl of Alber-

marie, one of the lords of his majesty’s bed chamber then

in waiting. C.

Tuerspay, Seft. t,

On sunday night about nine of the clock, the Bristol

mail was carried off trom the post-boy, by one foot pad, in

Maidenhead thicket, who mounted the pott-boy’s horie,

and rode off. C. - The Pcfi-master General has pub-

lished a reward of 2901. for apprehending the person, who

committed this robbery, besides the reward by a& of parlia-

ment fer apprebending of highwaymen: and assures any ace

complice, who foall make a aifcovery of the person who com-

mitted the fatt, that be will be intitled to the said reward

ef 2001. and also have the king's moff gracious pardon.

Mr. Alderman Parsons was to fet out trom Paris, with

his lady and family, on sunday lait; designing to dine at

his house at Ryegate in Surrey, on sunday next. P.

About the middle of laf{ month died at his feat of Cul-

Jen Aboyn in Scotland, the right honourable James Earl of

Finlater and Seafield, and is succeeded in honour and estate

by his eldest fon the Lord Defkford. D. P.

Laft week died at his feat at Acclam in Yorkshire, Sir

Williany Huftler, aged fourfcore: he was member for the

borough of Northallerton in several parliaments, a gentle-

man of an unblemished charaéter, and whose lols is ex-

treamly lamented by his country, to which he had retired

some years before his death. 14/d.

Plymouth, 4ug.28, ‘The 26th putin here the Anna,

Constantia, of and for Amsterdam, trom Smyrna, when

the captain came on shore, but was shortly ordered on

board again to perform quarentines the custom-houte offi-

‘ cers who were placed on beard her were soon afterwards

ordered on shore, for fear of what might otherwise happen,

and a itri€t guard is ordered to be kept on board her; fhe

has on board 30 men, 6 of whom are sick, but the captain

reports they are only ill of the {curvy; he had a long paf-

fage, upwards of three months, and the captain was obli-

ged cto put in bere for fresh provisions and hands, C.

On triday lad the report was made to his Majesty in

Council at Windsor, relating to 2 charter to be granted for

making iron with coal; and his Majesty was pleased to

grant it in favour of Mr.Wodd. E. P.

~ On friday last the South Carolina Princes visited the

Royal Hospital at Greenwich, with which they seemed

highly delighted; but what pleased arid surprized them

most, was a view of the ingenions and obliging Dr. Po-

cock’s elegant collection of rarities, where they {aw fe-

veral things, and arms of their own country. ‘T’hey were

handsome ly treated afterwards by Captain Smith in the:

Council Chamber. Jdid. and §. F. E.

Wennespvay, Sept. 2.

Windsor Castle, Auz.31. Yesterday the Chevalier OF-

forio, Envoy Extraordinary from the king of Sardinia, re-

cieved a courier from his court, with an account that his

Sardinian Majesty had resigned his crown, &c. to the prince

of Piemont his fon, and designed to retire to his caiftle of

Chamberry in Savoy; and this day the Chevalier Oflorio

had an audience of his majesty, at which he presented his

credential letters from the present king to his majesty. C.

P. D.P. D.F.

On the 24th instant one of his majesty’s messengers arri-

ved here from Spain, being dipatched by \:r. Keene his

Majetiy’s Minister at that Court, with an account, that his

Catholick Majestyy had appointed the Marquis de Monte-

leon his Ambassador to the Court of Great Britain, and that

orders had been fent hum to repair thither with all possible

expedition. Jbid. C F.

Yesterday was held a Court of Diretors of the East-India

Company, when they perused the Packets trom the late

Ships that arrived; and on thurfday next they will fit to

receive tenders tor the Ships in their ijervice for the eniuing

Year. Jéd/d.

The fame day the Right Honourable Sir Robert Walpole

came to town from Windsor, and was laii night prefeat at

a Committee of Conseil attie Cockpit. Jbid.

This day a Board of “Vreatury will be held at Whitehall,

when it is expecied several Vacancies will be fil'd up in his

Majesty’s Customs. did.

The new fewer that was begun last summer from Scot-

land-Yard to the upper end of Pall-Mail, being now com-

pleatly finished, they began yesterday to break ground in

Cicaveland-Court, in order to perfect the {ame against the

Royal Family’s return to St. James’s. [did

On monvay a great cricketematch was play’d between

the gentlemen of London and Surry, eleven on each side,

for twenty Guineas, in the Artillery-Ground, when the

fame was won by the former, by fix notches. Ibid.

Sir Edward Bellamy, Deputy-Governor ot the Bank, and

Alderman of Billingsgate-Ward, who was thought to have

been at the point of death, is fo well recovered, as to be

judged out of Danger. D. F.

On monday night about ten o'clock, Mr. Stone, serjeant

major of the firit regiment of foot-guards, was knock’d

down by the end of the Mall in St. Jaines’s Park, and robb’d

of 1 guinea and 54 hhillings, his silver-hilted {word and cane.

He was stunned some time with the blow; but recovering

himéelf, he called out to the centinel, who secured one man

and himself overtook another, who wege carried to the ‘Tilt-

Yard Guard-Room; afterwards trvo women came to fee

for their associates, and were likewise secured; but the

{word and cane not appearing among them, search was

made in the grafs by the Canal, where they were found.

They all denied the fact 5 but yesterday morning being

carried before Justice Cotten in King-iireet Westminster,

they were all bound over to appear before te Board of

Green-Cloath, the fact being within the verge of the court.

D. P. B.

On faturday morning about one o'clock, as Mr. John Kirk,

Engraver, was going home trom the fire in Watling-itrect,

he was attack’d in Foiter-Lane by three street-robers, who

clapping piltolito his breast robb’d him of 16 shillings and

fix-pence, and his hat and wig; but being all of them purfu-

ed, one of them, named Texter Brown, was taken, and the

fame day committed to Newgate by Justice Booth ot Gray’s-

Inn, and is to take his trial at the next teflions.

The matters of the several itage-coaches that go into the

Welt, have had a meeting, in order to concert measures for

preventing the frequent Robberics committed upon their

passengers. did.

Early on sunday morning four Scots pedlars being at Ox-

ford, one of them having drank a little too much, was de-

termined to go for Reading; the other three, in hopes to

pertuade him from it, offered to fee him part of the way,

and seeing a light at an alehouse in St. Thomas's Parish,

they knocked, but were refuied entrance; on Which one of

them, named John Armstrong, took up {ome stones or gra

vel and flung at the Window; whereupon the landlord

opening the Window, presented a gun and shot him in the

face, fo that he loft both his eyes, and wounded him other-

ways, fo that his lite was detpair’d of. The landlord,

named Franklin, was soon seized and confined in the city

prion. D. F.

Lait night the feflions ended at the Old Bailey, when 11

malefactors received sentence of death, viz. Gilbert Lau-

rence, for sodomy 3 Andrew Dalton, for robbing John

Rawlings of his horf{e, a gold headed cane, two pair of fil.

ver buckles, and other things; Nicholas Gilbourne, for rob-

bing John Hall, near Padington, of goods to the value of

above 151. Joseph Robinson, Nicholas Bennet, John Head

and George'T'averner, for robbing George Beresford in New

Prison of two half Guineas, two fixpences, &c. C. P. D P.

Samuel Armstrong and Thomas Griffiths alias Butler p

burglary; Thomas Hitchin for robbing Thomas Andrews

on the highway between Hampstead and Highgate of ¢; ht

shillings, and of his mare and whip, and Kingdall Seams

for fhoplifting. Jdid. P

Between 50 and 60 were ordered for ttanfp

three burnt in the hand, and twoordered to be whi

The trial of Mr. Haffel of the post office,

taking a 501. bank note out of a letter,

feflions. Ibid.

for

ortation;

pt. Lbid.

for felonioug

Was put off till nexe

Dublin, Aug. 22. On thurfday, between the hours of

6 and 7 in the evening, the long expected John Kelly

one of thg persons concerned in the rape committed some

time ago on the body of Mrs. O'Neil, and robbing of her

and for which he fled to England, where he was pur.

fued, taken, and committed to Carlisle goal, was broughe

hither from thence, according to his Majesty’s orders

dispatched by the principal Secretary of State, in custody

of one of his Majesty’s Messengers, the Goaler of Cariiffe

and the two persons who first seized him there. C. :

Yesterday the above Kelly was fetched from Newgate to

our Tholiel, and there arraigned for his trial to come on

this day. did.

This day the above-mentioned John Kelly was tried and

found guilty at the Tholfel, and was carried from thence

and executed near the Linnen-hall, the place where the fac

was committed. Jéid,

Edinburgh, Aug. #. We have an account from

Cow par of Angus, that a brewer of that place was commit-

ted to that prison for killing a meal maker who had craved

him rudely for money. C.

On sabbath evening a cooper’s wife in the fish market,

out of some discontent, hang’d herself. did.

Yesterday one Cuningham, who as to-morrow was to

have been executed at Glasgow, was brought in here in or-

der to be tried by the Lords of Justiciary, the former fen-

tence being by their Lordships suspended.

18. The above Cuningham was this forenoon sentenced

to be banished. Jdid.

From the Pegasus in Grub-street.

It is no {mall pleasure to our Society to find, thot, be

fide the comfortable support which this Journal affords to

some of their Members, there are others who can pick

up a tolerable maintenance out of the crumbs, which fall

from their table. Our ingenious Brother, Squire Stones

ca{tle, has adorned his Universal Spectator with an Epie

taph from Gravesend, which Mr. Bavius had rejeéted,

as being nothing but the fix following lines, in Mr. Pope's

Verjes to the Memory of an unfortunate Lady, murdered.

Ss peaceful refts, without a flone, a name,

What once had beauty, titles, wealth and fare.

How lov’d, hore honour’d once avails thee nvty

To whom related, or by whom begot.

A heap of dust alone remains of thee s

"Tis all thou art, and all the proud shall be.

The Letter from Oxford, relating to Mr. Whifton’s Mee

moirs of the Lite of Dr. Clarke, came too late to be in-

ferted this week. Sothat we mult defer the publication

of it till the appearance of our next Journal.

FOREIGN NEWS.

THURSDAY, Ang. 27.

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from France.

Versailles, Aug. 31. N.S. The Queen and Monieigneur

the Duke of Anjou are as well as can be wished. C. P-

&. P.

Paris, Sept. 2. N.S. On the 30th past the Provost des

Merchands and Echevins, who met in the Hotel de Villy

as soon as they heard the Queen was in labour, received

the news of her tate delivery, and of the birth of Mon

feigneur the Duke of Anjou, by the Chevalier de S:. An-

dré, ensign of the life-guards, who was attending upon te

Queen, and was fent by the King on purpose to acquaint

the Corps de Ville with it. He arrived at the Mot! de

Ville about half an hour after 11 0’ clock in the morv-

ing, and that very moment the Provoit des Marchanas a

Echevins made that good news known to ail the Gity SY

t

ringing the bell of the Hotel de Ville. In the evemmng tr

cannon were again fired; there was a great Lonhre, Wi

rockets, in the square before the Hotel de Ville, vs nicd Was

illuminated 5 and the people shewed their joy >;

tions, and by bonfires at all their doors. C.

: F . 4 low

The candidates for the place in the French ,

vacant by the death of the Bishop of Angers, have ‘a

given out, execpt M. Hardion, Keeper of tac airy

[Page 3.]

hraty at Versailles, and M. Ramsay, author of the Romance

ote fd that. in the first promotion the Pope will make

nly the Marquis de Corfini, his Nephew, a Cardinal 5

: 1 thap.in the second, his Holiness will nominate the Nun-

aio’s at the Courts of Vienna, Paris, and Madrid. C.

“ This Afternoon arrived two Mails from Flanders.

Hague, Aug. 28. Conferences have been frequently held !

between the States Deputies and several oF the foreign Mi-

nifters, upon the affairs of the negotiations at the Court of |

Spain, from. the first of which places arrived »

France and . :

an express yesterday, but the news it brought, mentions

nothing in relation to the conclusion of the treaty. Some

gdvices from Vienna import, that the Emperor was re-

folved to adhere to the articles of the quadruple alliance

and has fent orders to his Ministers at the Court of France,

to make known the same to the rest of the foreign Mi-

ifters. 0+ J-%:

a Aug 24- His Majesty has been almost every day,

either reviewing or giving directions for the better regula-

tion of his troops. ‘The Grafshoppers are not as yet di-

minished in this territory, but very much annoy the inha.

bitants. did.

Antwerp, Ang. 26. The Ostend Company seem to he at

a low ebb, though they expect home two ships from Ben-

gall; and the present doubtful circumstance of affairs oc-

cafions a great fall in the priceof their stock, fo that ‘twas

doubted the fame would dwindle away by degrees to no-

thing. Jdid.

SATURDAY, Aug. 29.

Yesterday arriv’d the Mail due from Holland.

Paris, Aug. 28. N.S. The Am)affadors-Plenipotentia-

ries of Spain having yesterday received an express from Ca-

galla, they went this morning to Versailles, to communi-

cate the contents of their diipatches to the Cardinal de

Fleury. Our letters by the last post from Barcelona advite,

that the preparations for the embarkation of the troops

were well nigh finished. Some, however, will have it,

that his Catholick Majesty will ship but 11 or 12,000 men

for an expedition that is kept very secret. Mr Walpole’s

departure for London is put off again; and we are told his |

excellency is very desirous of fnishing a certain negotiation

before he goes 3 but with what protpe¢t of success, we know

not. P.

Paris, Sept. 2. Monfieur Herault, Lientenant de Pe/ice has

been strangely puzzled of late by an adventure to discover

the printing of the Nouvelles Ecclefiaftiaues, a weekly pa-

per fet forth by the party of the Janfenifts, a kind of To-

ties in this Kingdom. Of these papers, many thousands

are distributed with fo much success, that the Magistrate

above spoken of with his hundred eyes, and hundred arms, }

is not able to suppress it. A few days ago he got infor-

mation, that the Printers were turned Miners, and did

their business under ground in a quarry, where were a

great many rooms : Hereupon Monfieur Herault fet out

in the night-time, with fifty of his archers, or guards, to

the place, and searched all the fubterranean caverns; but

found no fubitance, nor sign of the work; but after he

d given over his enquiry, in going into his coach, he

picked up one of the papers wet, as just coming from the

press, but what element produced it, he does not pretend

toknow. W. EB.

Extra&t of a private Letter, dated Constantinople, July 7.

ik E Turks are outwardly making great preperations

for war with the Persians, on/y waiting the return

of the laf express fent to receive their fnal answer 3 when

the Vizier himjelf is to depart with his troops, and to

winter at Aleppo, and the Grand Seignor is to go over

and remain at Prufia; What may come of it, time mul

shew s hitherto it has made no demand for cloth but should

ut go on, would cause a good trade next year at Aleppo.

His excellency Abraham Stanyan, E /q3 bas taken his leave

of us, and is now on board the Torrington man of war,

Captain Vincent, which will depart this afternoon for

Smyrna, to remain three days, then make the bef of his

way: Every body laments the lols of him, he being univer-

{ally beloved by all nations. E.P. W.E.

Monpay, Aug. 31.

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from France.

Paris, Sept.6. N.S. M. Chomel, physician and bo.

tanift to the Royal Academy of Sciences, having desired '

to be superannuated, his request was granted, and they will |

choose another in his room. C. P. D.P.

e have an account from St. Pol in Artois, that on the

23d past in the afternoon, a fire broke out in the suburbs |

ere, which consumed 122 houés in less than 3 hourss to-

gether with a woman, a child, 46 barns full of corn, wood

and other provisions, and a great number of cattle. The

mes were fo fierce, that the inhabitants could dave none

of their effects. They do not fay how it began, but the

Mage is computed at a million of livres. Jhid. P.

he Opera, the French and Italian play-houtes, the co-

al opera, and the rope-dancers all opened their houses

gratis for one day, upon occasion of the birth of the Duke

mica

, of Anjou; by wuich means they had very numerous andi-

ences and spectators. C. -~ Lt is to be hoped that the

generous courtezan, who obliged ber customers gratis on ac-

| count of the birth of the Dauphin, will repeat her benevo-

lence on this occasion,

Tuespbay, Septem. 1.

| its course.

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from Holland. =

Rome, Aug.19. N.S. On monday morning the Pope

held a private consistory, wherein he performed the cere-

mony of shutting and opening the mouths of the Cardinals

Collonits and Sinzendorff; after which he created a Cardi-

nal, but reserved him in pette, though it is generally be-

lieved to be his nephew Corfini. The proceedings against

the Beneventines and others, for abusing the goodnets and

| piety of the late Pope, are carried on with the greatest ri-

gour, his holiness being determined that justice shall take

On the 16th, all the Abbot Capocaccia’s papers

were seized, and he was carried to prison. Some Jews

| have likewise been taken up, and among them the rich one,

Sereno, Cardinal Cofcia’s great favourite: these [{raelites

are charged, as we hear, with having purchased some fur-

niture ot the Apostolick palace. ‘The Pope’s Major-domo

| {peaking to his holiness the other day, in behalf of one Be-

neditto, formerly a domestick of Signor Genovefi, who was

carried to prison with the last Pope’s livery on bis back, ha-

ving purchated a groom’s place in that pontiff’s service 5 and

representing it as an affront offered to his holiness’s person,

the old father took him up very short, and told him, /¢

was done by bis order, and he would be obeyed. His holi-

ness having resolved to procure plenty of all forts of provi-

fions in this city, has ordered an account to be taken of all

the corn go miles round the fame 5 he has taken off several

' duties, and considerably lowered the price of meat and fee

veral ether necessaries. C.

Constantinople, Fuly:14. Prince Thamas, the new So-

phi of Persia, having demanded of the Grand Signor the

} veltitution of the places that were yielded to him by the

Sultan Efretf, his fublime highness has, by way of answer,

declared war against him, and in consequence thereof has

given orders to fet up the flandard of Mahomet, and to

hang out the horse’s tail. The plague is again broke out in

this Capital, and has already extended itself as tar as Pont.

D. P.

Cazalla, Aug. 19. The mountains and woods have

been on fire for 14 days, and burnt fo dreadfully, that peo-

ple begin to be in great fear for this place and Contftantia,

the fire being approachtd very near these places, and have

done inex preflible damage to the vineyards, grafs, and other

fruits of the earth, and has occasioned an almott intolerable

heat: great numbers of wild beasts and animals, among

them divers stags, &c. have been suffocated by the fire and

{moak, This fire, as ’tis said, was occasioned by some

boors, who having made by night fires on the mountains,

| the woods had been by the wind jet in flames, - and the

heat here is fo great, that many people are fallen sick,

whereupon the king resolved the 13th isift to fet out for

Seville by the 23d, and from thence to Port St. Mary’s,

where "tia said the court will reside "till the last of October,

and then pass the winter again at Seville D. F.

WEDNESDAY; Seft. 2.

Leghorn, Aug. 19. N.S. They write from Barcelona,

that they had seized and confilcated the Barque of Capt.

Bartholomeo Vacca-Fircalino of Palermo, which put in

there from Sardinia with the Emperor’s pasport, as King

of Sicily; and that the said Captain and all his men were

prisoners. They add, that they do not believe the Spa-

' nish fleet wal put to fea before the arrival of the flotilla,

: which is expected at Cadiz some time this month. Let-

‘ters from Alicant advise, that there were ships enow in

that port to carry gooe foot and 10ee horle, which were

in that neighbourhood 5 and that they had begun there

also to ship off the cannon and ammunition; but the

troops were not to go on board till the zoth instant, to

fail for Barcelona. From PortosLongone it is written,

that a tartane was arrived there from Barcelona, with

dispatches for the Governor, and a Lill of exchange of

40,@00 pieces of eight, payable by Messieurs Firi Dolphi of

Florence. C.

Genoa, Aug. 19, N.S. On sunday last arrived here two

vessels from the island of Corsica, with dispatches for the

Government, which give us ground to hope the troubles

' in that island will soon be adjusted in an amicable manner.

| Besides the Deputies before arrived at Baitia from several

| parts of the island, four more are since come, to endea-

{ vour, in conjunction with the commiflaries of the Repub-

{ lick, to fettle the publick tranquility upon a lafting toot.

\ Two days ago came in here two English Merchant ships

' from Gibraltar, with advice that on the 25th past fix tran-

{ports failed thence, loaded with all forts of ammunition

for Port-Mahon, under convoy of a man of war. did.

| Milan, dug. 19, N. S. The Imperial troops in this

Dutchy are very quict at present, but ready to march

upon thé firit notice. We expeét here in a little while,

1@,ceo more men from Germany. Jdid.

Amperdam, Aug. 8, N.S. The Duke of Mecklemburg’s

a eo ee

+ en wise ee a os .

| Minister at Ratisbon has lateiy commtnteated td thé o ef ;

Ministers a memorial from the. Duke his Master; dat

dug. 12. whereby that Prince acquaints' the Dyet, that the

Residence of $chwerin was closely block’d up by the trdopé

of Brunswick; that his Domains were entirely ruin’d 5 that _

his subjects wete harafs’a with quartering of soldiers, and

sundry contributions which were exaéted from thems that

they hinder’d his bailiffs and other officers from exervifing

their employs by his order; and that several of his rebellious

Gentlemen had made a new league, and had engaged td

raise 40,000 Rixdollars to execute their wicked design a*

gainit his Highness, &c. did.

b+ é

Extraét of a private Letter from Vienna, dated Aug. ig

N.S.

CoH Koning fek bas fent bither one of bis Gentlemety

named Eifenbuth, whoje dijpatches occasioned the

holding of .a Council at Prince Eugene's. When they

broke up, an express was fent to Milan, and another td

Naples: The former carried orders to Count Merci to de®

tach 12,@00 men to enter Tuscany, and throw themselves

into the principal places: The other was charged with

infiruétions to the Viceroy to be upon bis guard, and td

give the fame caution to General Wallis, who commands it

Sicily s the Spaniards being resolved their fieet foall faily

at all hazards, and attempt a descent either in Tufeany

or Sicily. The netwwo levies are carried on with such goo

fuccels, that in a few days all the regiments will be coma

plete upon the foot of the augmentation.

We are going to fend 10,000 men more to Italy.

The eldest Count de Hobenloe-Barenftein is bere, about

the law suit he is engaged in with bis two brothers, who

claim a partition of the. estate, by virtue f their father's

will: But this not having been confirmed by bis Imperial

Majesty, it is thought the two claiming brothers will bé

nonsuited. The eldest Count is moreover in a Fair enay to

be made Catholick President of the Chamber of Fustice of

the Empire. 3

The King of Sardinia has not yet declared for either

party 3 but undoubtedly Prince Eugene will go to Lombardy

in caje of a war. eas

The fair of Triefe was prolenged for a week beyond ihe

limited time, and would have infinitely exceeded expetta

tion, could the Merchants of Sicily, Naples and Milan

have bcen there. Those of Venice, Hungary and Tranfyls

vania laid eut great fums of money init. Ps

Paris, Sept 4. N.S. The Royal Academy of Literature

Arts and Sciences here, give notice to the learned of a

Nations, of the prize founded by the late Duke de la

Force, confilting of a gold Meda} valued at 3¢0 livres.

This prize ts to be given Him that shall explain, in thé

most probable manner, formation of found, and its diffes

rent modifications; and it will be delivered wpon the 25th

of August 1731. The dissertations may be tent cither in

French or Latin; but they will be received no longer thant

the first of May inclusively. At the close of each diflers

tation there is to be a sentence; and the author is to write

in a separate paper, fezled up, the fame fenterice, with hig

name and place of abode. The pacquets are to be fent

pott paid, and directed to Monfieur Sarrau, Secretary td

the Academy, Rue de Gourgues; or to Monfieur Brung

Printer to the Academy, Rue S. Fames. Lbid.

The Course of Exchange.

Amsterdam 34 5 | Madrid 42 § Sthe

Ditto at fight 34 3 Bilboa 42

Rotterdam 247 | Leghorn 51 1 half

Antwerp 35 1 Genoa 54 1 half

Hamburgh 33 1 Venice 49 |

Pavis at fight 32 3 Sths | Lisbon 5s. 6d. a 3 8thig

Bourdeaux at fight321 8th | Porto ss: 4d. 7 Sths

Cadiz 42 5 halt Dublin to 1 half

Prices of Goods at Bear Key:

per Quarter per Quarter

Wheat ——17 to 44 | Hog Peas—— 14 to 16

Rye —— 10 to 12 | Boiling Peas— 20 to 22

Barley — 1@ to 13 | Pale Malt —-12 to 20

Oats — 7 to 13 | Brown Malt—1z2 to 18

HorseBeans12 to 27 | Tares —— 24 to 3¢

Corals 21s. to 22s. Gd. per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 — 19s. to 20s. per Hundred:

Hops 1729 — 20s. to 39s. per Hundreds

Rape Seed 311. tort. 10s. per Lak.

On Tuesday Stocks were,

South Sea 102 5 8ths, a 3 4ths. South $ea Anritity

107 7 &ths, 48. Bank i44, a 1 4th.

per Cent. Annuity 96. Million b

York Buildings 24 1 4th.

gi, a2. sth.

1 ath.

ank 108. Atrican 44.

Bank Circulation 41. 17s. South Sea Bonds gk.

India 184; Three

Royal Afftrance (160 t. paid in) J

London ditto (131. paid in) 12 2 8th; a

6s. India ditto 5l. 15s. English Copper 3l. 5s. Welsh ditto 1l. 10s. 6d.

[Page 4.]

India 184; Three

Royal Afftrance (160 t. paid in) J

London ditto (131. paid in) 12 2 8th; a

| 6s. Indiaditto g1.15s. EnglishCopper gl. 5s. Welt

ADVERTISEMENTS.

At REYNOL D's Great Theatrical Booth,

Over again& the Hospical Gate in Smithfield,

Dring the Time of Bartholomew- fair, will be presented, an ex-

cellent new Droxt, cali’d

scipepi0s TRIUMPH:

OR

The SIEGE of CARTHAGE.

With the Comical Humours yof Noodle, Stitch, Puzzle, &c.

The Parts of

Scipio, . Mr. Mallart. Pheniffa, Mrs.Williamson

Alvefius, Mr. Rofco. Noodle, €}, ) Mr. Jones.

Lelius, Mr. Stoppelaer. | Stitch, YS Mr. Dutton.

Almeyda Mrs. Mallart. | Puzzle, Mr. Hipply.

And the other Parcs to be performed by the rest of the Comedians

from the Hay-MankEr.

To which will be added,

A new Pantomime Entertainment in Grotesque Characters, call’d

ARLEQUINs CON TRIVANCE;

O R,

The Pracue of a Wanton WIFE.

The Part ot Harlequin by Mr. hxovt.

The Forester, Mr. Reynolds.

His Man Clumfy, bs Mr. Dove.

Y) Mrs, Foreflers

Mr. Fones.

Colombine,

Bawd,

Mr. Scoppelaer.

Foresters, g b3 Mr. Wathen.

Mr. Hicks.

Mise Nokes.

Women Peasants, boyd Mrs. Clark.

Milfs Palms.

and other Decorations, are

N. B. All the Habits, Scenes») Machines,

‘ Vivant Rex © Regina.

@nurely new.

On Tuesday neit will be Published,

An OCCASIONAL WRITER.

Printed for A, Moone near St, Pauls.

Chis Dap is publisher,

Compleat Treatise of Practical Navigation demonstrated from

its Grft Principles, together wich all the necessary Tables. To

which are added the useful Theorems of Menfuration, Surveying and

Gauging, with their Application to Practice. Written for the Use

of the Academy in Tower street. By Archibaid Pacoun, Fellow of

the Royal Society.; : ad,

London; Printed for Robert Willock at Sir aac Newton's Head

in Corphil,

Where may be had, .

I. Arrian’s History of Alexander the Great’s Expedition. Tran-

flated from the Greek with Nores, by Mr. Rooke, im 2 vols.

Il. The Choice. Being a Collection of aso of the molt celebra-

ted Enyglith Songs. :

Ill. The Ter Table Miscellany, or Allan Ramsay’s Collection of

Scots Sangs.

This Day is publifjen,

The Eleventh and Laff Pant, (which compleats the Werk, and compre-

bends Somerfershire, Dorfershire, Devonshire aud Cornwall, with some

Nataral Hiffery of each County) of .

New Survey of ENGLAND. Wherein the Lefedts of CAM-

pew are supplied, and the Errors of his Followers remarked;

the Opinions of our Antiquarics are compared; the Roman Military

Ways traced; and the Stations fettled according co the Itinerary, with-

out altering the Figures. By N.Satmon, L.L. B.

Printed tor J» Rosgats in Warwick lane, and J. Leake, Book-

feller at Bath. Price 1s. ie

“Ov Bpsccpsav norswors Oro civdpes D8 78 mearrss

"Alain. — HoME R.

7 Where may be had,

Any of the former Parts, to complere Gentlemens Sets.

N.B. A Tabie of the Principal Matters contained in the miicella-

neous Part of the whole Work, is added co this Parc.

_. Ebis Day is Publishe,

(The second Edition revised and corrected, with large Additions

by the Author)

A Compendious and methodical Account of the Principles of Na-

tura! Philosophy, as explained and illustrated in the several Cour-

fes of Experiments periormed at the Academy in Little Tower-

Mreet. By Baxy. WonsTER, A.M.

Printed for SrerHEN AusreN, at the Angei and Bible in Sx.

Paul's Church-yard. In8vo, Price 48- 6d.

Where may be had,

T. A General System of Hydrottaticks and Hydraulicks, Philosophi-

eal aad Practical, illustrated and explained by 52 large Copper Places.

In 2 Vols. g41e. Price s1. 10s.

Il. The Works of the Right Reverend Gronoce Buyit, D.D,

concerning the Holy Trinity, &c. In 2 Vols. 8yo. Price 10 s.

Where may be had,

III. The Femaze Puysiciax, containing all the Diseases inci-

dent to chat Sex, ia Virgins, Wivesand Widows; together with their

Caufles and Symptoms, their Degrees of Danger, and respe&ive

Methods of Prevention and Cure. To which is added, the whole

Act of New improved Midwitety; comprehending the necessary Qua-

lifications of a Midwite, and particular Directions for laying Women

in al Cafes of difficulc and preter-natural Births; together with the

Diet and Regimen of both the Mother and Child. By Jonw Mow-

saay, M.D. 8vo. Price ss.

‘To be SOLD or LETT; ' ;

In good Repair, and but two Miles Distance trom either Staines or

Windsor, advantageously situated, having a fine Prosped& of the

Cale and Park,

House called LEATHERLAKES, fix Rooms on a Floor, Coach-

house and Stabling, two Acres of Land said out in Orchard and

Gardening, with or without sixteen Acres of Meadow Land, on

the Thames fade, Egham Parish, in the County of Surrey.

Enquire ot Mr. Turner, Brickmaker, near the said House; {L-

Gilliver at Homer’s Head in Fieet-street; or of Mr. Lawton, im

Great Turn Stile, Holbourn.

This Day is Wublither,

AN Essay upon Poetry and Painting, with relation to the Sacre! and

Prophane History, With an Appendix concerning Obscenity

in Writing and Painting. |

Ur Pidora Peefis.

Dabitnrque Licentia fur pta pudentur.

Difce docendus adhuc quid cenfet amiculus:

Ur fi Cacas iter menfirare velit. ;

By Charles Lamozte, D, D, F.R.6. Member of the Society of An-

tiquaries, and Chaplain to his Grace the D. of Montague; printed

for F. Fayram at the South Entrance of the Royal-Exchanges and

J- Leake, Bookseller at Bath.

Ac Josnua STorHER p’s Boarding-School in Charles-ftreer, Se.

ames’s-square,

RE taught Exouisn, Larix, Greek and Faencn, Also

Writing and Arithmerick, after an ealy and peculiar man er.

Merchants Accompts (orjth: true Iralian Method ot Book-keeping)

and the Mathematicks.

Also Drawing, Musick, Dancing and Fencing; and every Qualifi-

cation proper ior young Gentlemen design'd tor Offices or Employ-

ments either at Heme or Abroad.

N.B. The House is!spacious, and the Apartments accommodated

according to the different studies of the young Gentlemen.

Lately publifven,

Dedicated to bis Grace the Duke ef Rutland,

The SECOND VOLUME, of

De Tuov’s History of hisewn Time. To which is pre-

® fixed, The Lite of the Author, iu fix Book;, from his own

Acrooirs. Together with an Appendix, containing the caflrated

Passages taken trom the frft Edition, printed by Pauilon, with an

Indcx « the said Volume.

Tranfiated trom the Geneva Edition of 1620, by Bernard Wilion,

A. M. Vicar of Newark upon Trent, and Prebencary of Lincoln.

Printed by E. Say, and fold by F Fayram under the Royal Ex-

changes W- Meadows in Cornhill, B. Motte and T. Worrall in Fleet-

street, J. Stage in Westminfte:-hall, T. Green over-against che Meufe

Gate at Chaiing-cross, J. Jacxfon in Pail-mall, and J. Roberts

in Warwick-lane. Price one Pound two Shillings. Ac which

Places mzy be had the first Volume compleat, put in Pafte-boara,

Price : 1. 28. Those that want any odd Numbers, may have them

ot Edward Say, Printer, without 5 a

N. B. Mi. Wilson is purfuing the Work wich all possible speed.

BOOKS printed for Jot Brornmer'row, at the Bible

Fleece Tavern in Cornhill.

Blair’s Sermons, 5 Vols.

Life ot Oliver Cromwel

Gordon’s Geog. Grammar

Boileau Oevre poetique

gar Progress

ales of the Fairies, 3 V

Engi Tur)

Musical Di&ionary

Shakespear's Plays

Congreve’s Works

Garth’s Ovid

DCXt thy

Cambden’s Bricrannia

Burkit on the New Testament

L’Bftrange’s Josephus

Tillotiun’s Works, 3 Vols

Bacon’s Works, 4 Vols,

Lock’s Works, 3 Vol.

Oldenburgh of Exchanges

Addifun’s Works, 4 Vols. 4to

Puffena ri’s Law ot Nature

Bailey’s D Gionary, tul,

Wood's Institutes, tol.

Carckas Rates, fol. — Boye:’s Telemachus

Stevens’s Spanish Di&ionary Meige’s State oi Britain,

With Variety of single Plays and Pamphlets.

(Written originally fi yay Ae is Lge gov

: originally for the Entertainment of the Kin the

Madam de Gomez,) B4 telebraseg

EcretT Memoirs of the Court of Prasia, Printed fo¢

mE. — Bickercon, in Devereux-Court, near the Middle-Temple,

Of whom may be had

I. The Curious and Profitable Gardener; with ferior

a Aloe and Torch Thifiles. By aah, Qaabana, “meen of

- Dr. Wood; —. eh to

of ae gmc s Anatomy of the Hear:, and Origine and Circulation

Ill. A View of the present Affairs of Int LAND inj

P , > COQlal

Lilttot Assevrees, and Modest Proposal. By Dr.Swirt, nung @

Sut Publisher,

Volume, ae 2s. she Second Edition with Ade

: sf40NS O

me d jntelligencer. By the celebrated Author of the Tale of g

Oune vafer vitiam videnti Flaccus awico

_— Tangit, O Admiffus circum pracordia ludit,

Contaiung, Lhe i.icipitabie Temper ot "Squire Wether. — A Vine

dicatton «tf Mr-eGay, aug the BeggarsOpecae The Folly of Gami

A Delciiption ot what the World calls Diftretion. A Reprele.

tauon of cae pieient Condision of Leland- = The Chara@ers of Coe

rulodes aud Lugenio, A Dialogue between Muliniz and Timo-

thy. The icclith Methods ot Education among the Nobili

Tim. and Gay’s Fables. Proposals in Prose and Verse for an vo

versal View of the eminent Writers of the Holy Scripcures. Sit

Ralph the Patriot tuin’d Courtier. The Arc ot Story-relling Pre

Metheuss Act or Man-making, and the Tale of a T--d, The

Seiviccs the Draper has done his Country, and the Steps taken to

ruin it. The Adventures of the three Brothers, George, Pucrick

and Andrew. The Marks of Ireland's Poverty, shewn to be evi-

dent Proots of its Kichegs, St. Andrew’s Day, aid the Draper's

Burth-day. The tiardfhips ot the Irish being deprived of their

Silver, and decoy’d into America. Dean Smedley gone to jeek hig

Fortune, The Pheasant and the Lark: A Fable,

Printed tor, and fold by Fiancis Co; '

in Fleet-street. y aM OF the Middle-aznple-gae

In a meat Pocket

Just publish’d, The Second Edicion of

G ERMONS on the following Subjects. By SamugL CLARKE,

D.D. late Reétor of St. James’s, Westminster, published trom the

Aathor’s MS. by Fohn Clarke, D.D. Dean ot Sarum; witha Pretace

giving some Account ot the Lite, Writings ana of the da

thor, by BENyaMin Lord Bishop of SaLisBuRY. In 2 Vols.

Vol. I. Yol. UU,

Of Faith in God. Of the Glory of God.

Of the Unity of God. Or God's being the Father of

Of the Eternity of God. Mankind.

Of the Spirituality of God, Of being the Children of God.

Of the Immutability of God. Of loving God.

Ot the Omniprefence et God. Ot the Fear ot God,

Of the Ommporence of God. Ot the wisdom ct being ‘Religi-

Of the Omnilcience ot God, ous.

Ot the Wisdom ot God. Of imitating the Holiness of God.

Of the Goodness of God, Ot the Love of God towards Sin-

Of the Patience of God. ners,

Of the Justice ot God. O: Believing in God.

Or: the Grace of God.

O: the Kingdom of God.

Printed for J. and J. Knapton at the Crown in St. Paul’s Church-

yards

Where may be had, _

The Second Edition ot Dr. CianKke’s Exposition of the Church

Cathechism, and all the Works of Dr. CLARKE.

This Day is Hublither,

Numb. III, for the Month of July, of

Iftoria Literavia: Or, an exatt and carly Account of the

; most valuable Books published in the several parts of

Surope,

P Floriferis ut apes in [ultibus omnia Libant

Omnia nos itidem, Lucret.

Printed for N. Prevost, over against Southampton-street in

the Strand, and E. Symon in Cornhill, and fold by J. Crokat

and! L. Gilliver in Fleet-street. To which is added, The

present State of Learning, Extraéts of several Letters fron

Paris, Lyons, Zurich, and a Catalogue of new Books im-

ported dusing the said- Month of June, by N. Prevoit and

Comp.

Where may be had, Number I. and II. for the Months of

May and June. and

A new History of England, in English and French, by

Questons and Answer, for the Use of Schools, extracted

from Mr. Rapin Thoyras, 1°,

The fame Book in English alone.

Tabula Chronologica Hifforie Sinice Connexa cum Cyclo qui

vulgo Kia Tfe Dicitur, in 3 sheets, Rome 17-9.

ee ae

Dr. GODFREY’s General Cordial,

So usmiverfially approved of for the Chelck, and all manner of

Pains in the bowels, Fluxes, Fevers, Small-Pox, Meafles,

Kheumatisms, and Keftlefinets in Men, Women, and Children, and partiwutarly for several Ailments incitext to Childe

— women, and Relief of yonng Children in breeding thei

eri),

I S fold in most Cities, Boroughs, and Market-Towns

throughout Great-Britain and Ireland; remov‘d from

Hunfdon to Broxborn in Hertfordfh.re: And tor the Conves

niency of supplying all those parts, there are established by

me BENJAMIN GODFREY these following Wholce

sale Warcioufes, viz.

John Weitlake’s in Queen-street, Bristol ;

Peter Leadbeater’s, Dittiller, in Weft Chesters

» Mr. Button’s, Boukfeller, on the Bridge at Newcastle

upon Tyne;

Mr. Brooke's, Distiller, on the Blind-key, Dublin.

As also at m, Original Warehouse in Bishopsgate-street,

London.

Any reputable Shop-keeper in any City, Borough, or

Market-Town, where this Medicine is not already fold, may

be supply’d at any of the said Warc-houses with good Al-

lowance

N. B. The Publick are desired to take Notice, (to prevent

being imposed on) that there is an ill minded Perton who

counterfe-ts the said Medicine, and puts the Title of Gode

frey’s Cordial on the top of the Bottles, and in his Bills given

with the Bottles, he calls it 7ve GENERAL COR-

DIAL, and does not put the Person’s Name who prepares

it; but as this Counterfcir Maker is now tound out by his

own Confession, he and his Sellers will be prosecuted as the

Law directs (as Impcftors): And to prevent the Buyzrs trom

being impos’d on, I have put my Christian Name on che

Top of eaclr Bottle, which: is prepared

By me Benjamin Godfrey, M. D.

The price ot each Bottle is 6 d.

For the Beneftt of those who are affiiéted with the

Elizabeth Knel!, who lives next Door to the Baker and

Basket in Middle-fircet, Cloth-fair, near Weitt-!mi

TILL continues ts pertorm great Curs in

Distemper, on beth Sexes, and all Azes.

An Account may be had of feve al Cures att

the DROPSY.

te Ba! nd

ne

Place aforesaid.

LONDON: Printed by A. Moore, for Captain Gulliver, near the Temple, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in.

[Price Two Pence.]

