The Grub-street Journal.

NUMB: 37.

Thursday, SEPTEMBER 17, 1730.

"a

SS

Stat contra ratio, & secretam garrit in aurem, |

Neliceat facere id, quod quis vitiabit agendo.

Perf.

The following Letter coming from a learned Correspon-

dent, I could not forbear taking the first opportunity of

rinting it : tho’ I must own, I entirely differ from my

Friend's opinion. I-cannot but think that these Prote

Translations ought by all means to be encouraged, as

the most probable way of reducing the moit Parnat-

fan Authors to the profoundeft Grubbism. — Bavius.

Mr. Bavius,

HERE is a fort of Books now a days,

that I can’t account for, nor fee the ufe

of them. I mean Translations of Greek

and Latin Poets into Englifo Proje. The

humour spreads, and we have had So-

phecles, Horace, Perfius, and othezs very

lately, not only in exg/i/b, but in proje.

I should not believe there could possibly exist such auke

ward wrong-headed icholars, if I had em not before my

eves. Perhaps as ’Us now the fashion for us to imitate

and follow the French whithersoever they have a mind

© j is matter allo we are treading their

to lead us, fo in this matter aio we gt

footfteps. ‘They have translated, I believe, all the Greek

and Latin Poets into fremch proe. Poor Mi/ten him-

self has not escaped their hands. Is it not agreed

by all readers, that “tis not fo much the noble thoughts

and fine sentiments, which are better fought for in

Philosophers and Moralists, as the fonorous numbers, the

fmart and magnificent diction that make a Poet valu-

able? What then do these people mean by translating a

fine Poet into mean creeping profe ? ‘They debase and

burlesque him without doubt. Let any man read an act

in the new Sophec/es, and he will immediately cry out, 4s

this the famous Sophocles! What abominable fluff is bere!

And yet I am told, that Mr. Theobald has a translation of

even fchylus himself, whether in profe or verie I don’t

know, ready for the press; not deterr’d by the ill fuccels

his Ariflophanes had, and although he has people’s money

in his pocket for his Emendations of Shake/pear. But I

ought to add indeed, that [ hear he intends to give us

the text of Shakespear as well as notes, as {oon as he can

bring matters to bear; a work his very enemies will, I

believe; allow him to be capable of.

A great deal might be said to shew the absolute unpro-

fitableness and ab{urdity of tran‘ating Poets into Prose; |

but I think there’s no manner of occasion for it: ‘and yet |

they find buyers, particularly Dr. Danjer’s Horace, of

Which I fee a fourth Edition. Because I had a mind to

Write to you upon this subject, I dipp’d first into the Ho-

race, then the Perfius. Hor. Ep. Lib. 1, 12. last verse

-——- aurea fruges

Italie pleno defundit copia cornu.

isthus translated, we have here in Italy a very plentiful

barve?. This is fermoni propiora with a vengeance. That

fine line,

Quem fcis imanem Cinare placuifle rapaci.

The covetous Cinara entertain’d me gratis.

Rome nutriri mihi contigit, atque doccri,

Tratus Graiis quantum nocuiffet Achilles

I was educated at Rome, where I read Homer's Iliads.

sthis movere bilem or jocum, or both; as Horace fays

of the Imitatores fervum ie Ps

But the Translator of Perfius is more diverting. I will

Write down a few lines, from which the motto is taken,

with his version.

Difce: fed ira cadat nafo, ruzofaque fanna,

Dum veteres avias tibi de pulinone revello.

Non Pretoris erat flultis dare tenuia rerum

ficia, atque ufum rapide permittere vitz.

Sambucam citius caloni aptaveris alto.

tat contra ratio, & secretam garrit in aurem,

e liceat facere id, quod quis vitiabit agendo.

ublica lex hominum, naturague continet hoc fas,

tteneat vetitos inicitia debilis actus.

Perf. Sat. 5, gr.

Behold the translation; « OA, learns Lut be not angry, nei-

‘ . , 2 1 “>

ther laugh ner jeer, ware L pull away old wite’s tales

from your heart. It was not in the Pretor’s power to

instill fublime thoughts into filly Ideots, cr make them

{quare their lives by the rule of reafun-- no; you

shall {ooner teach a soldier’s boy to play on the dulcimer.

Reason contradi&ts, and secretly whispers Sim in the ear,

(whom ? the soldier’s boy?) that be thould not strive to

do that which even any one hhall {poil in attempting to

effect it. ‘The publick law of man and nature compre-

hends this folid right, that they deny weak inept igno-

rance the privilege to try forbidden things.

O! hominem infelicem fiudiorum ! Besides the vile pal-

try language of this translation, a school Loy would deserve

to be whipp’d for construing it fo; and yet the Editor

fays *tis for the use of schools. Perfius for ghe ufe of

scheols! an author the most unfit for schools 6¥ any now

extant in any language. He might as well have translated

Lycophron for ’em.

But, Sir, there’s another thing which deserves your

animadversion; that is, Translations of profe authors into

verse. ‘Thisindeed, is not fo common, nor fo absurd. I

have by me Epiétetus in Latin verse, and a great part of

the Bible. Nonnus, a Christian Poet about Theodofius’s

time, turned the Gospel of John, which is writ with all

the plainness and simplicity imaginable, into extravagant

bombatt, worse if possible than his own Dionyfiacs. We

have had the history of the world in Hexameter and Pen-

tameter by a Dr. in Divinity, and the English History in

Doggrel, and may possibly in a little time fee Tillotfon’s

Sermons in Heroics for the use of schools; with full as

much reason as we have Horace’s fermones in profe. But

what frightens me most is; I am told a certain Gentle-

man has put Thucydides into english verse: and because

that noble Author writes short and close, he designs to

lengthen him out into 24 Books, just as many as Homer's

Ivias has; for, he fays, he can make a whole Book of one

of Pericles’s {peeches. For this laborious work he ex-

pects great encouragement, and a numerous subscription, at

2 guineas 3 half to be paid at subscribing. This puts me

in mind of what I heard one fay the other day, that surely

Terence would be much more read and admired if he was

done well into Heroic verse; that Iambics and Trochaics

were crabbed and unharmonious, little understood or tafted,

notwithstanding the labours of Bishop Hare or Matter

Bentley.

These things, Mr. Bavius, deserve your censure and

correéction. ours, B. I.

Lal

n

a

The following Letter was received juit after the publi-

cation of our 34th Journal.

SIR,

A® your /a/ Letter, being an Extraét from the Hiftoe

r

ical Memoirs of Dr. Clarke, concludes, with Sir

Tfaac Newton's observation relating to Dr. Bent/ey’s and

Bishop Hare's fighting about a PJlay-Book, (which fays

Mr. Whiflon, very juitly, is a Reproach upon them, their

holy Religion, and holy Fun&ion, plainly intolerable:) In

Justice both to Sir J/aac Newton and Mr. Whifton, your

next Journal should find a Place for the inclosed Session of

Criticks. Itis the Performance of the late ingenious Mr.

William Pattijon of Sidney Coll. Camb. who fent a Copy

of it to Sir J/aac, which might probably occasion that great

Man’s Remark above-mentioned.

I hope you will not rejeét it, because the Author was

not a Member of your Society; he was, it must be con-

fefled, a Parnaffian; and, almost, the only modern Author

not inrolled in the Danciad.

He died of the small-pox in the 21ft year of his Age :

his Poetical Works are printed in two volumes, octavo, but

this Session, &c. was never yet made public.

Iam, Sir, yours, &c.

Purtomusus.

A SESSION of the Cambridge Criticks.

I.

LD Zoi/us, the foureft Dame Critice bore,

The pedantic, dull Spawn of a Billing gate Whore,

Was lately by Alomus deputed to fettle, P

Who should wear the long-scolded-for Chaplet of Nettle.

2.

Down he flew to Triv. Col?. and the Library fought,

To be near his own B -- - was ever his thought;

With a {narl of Disdain left the Chappe! behind him,

| Por That was a Place where he ne’er hop’d to find him.

With his Chaps full of Wormweed he mounted his Throng

Of Worm-eaten Parchments, illegible grown ;

A tough Crab-tree Cudge! for a Sceptre he waves,

And halloos, Heus, borfum, adeffe ye faves.

4

B—— first was expeéted, but did not appear,

For h’ad order’d his Delegate Frog to declare,

That, to work up Dean H » Was his present employ,

And he'vow’'d he’d ne’er mix with the ferub os wearer,

From his Garret, where long he had rufted, came down

Toby T——dy cock-fure that the Prize vas his own ;

Crying Zoons where's this B—— ? i’li give him no Quarter,

And held up the Preface of his fam’d Fu/in Martyr.

6.

His Disciples came next. Caleb fcar'd at the Sight,

As he thought of Jom I —-r--~ m ran away in a fright $

An Embryo C/audian was T- "s pretence, '

Which alas! prov’d abortive for want of the Pence.

7.

The Censor view'd ToSy with a {mile of Applause,

And was almost inclin’d to have granted his cause 3

But bad him retire to his fnarling Vocation,

He'd insure him the Nett/e for the next Dedication.

8.

But as for Friend J- r—m, he only was fit

To coax his Preceptor and cry up bis Wit s

And since Ca/eé to Publish was not very forward,

Let him Drink his Sud/cription with Ro—t and H———#.

With his Guts and his Rusticks, roll’d in Ferry N---d---my,

And way’'d for the Prize, but the Judge wou’d not heed himé

With dry thinking old Fumbler ne’er puzzle thy Brains,

Go {punge with the Ninnies of Bennet and Queen's.

10.

The M of D——n's, with his Coach full of Tully,

Came into the Court, and endeavour’d to bully,

Crying J’ no occasion to preach up my Merit,

I'm a hopeful young Lad---you have B's Word for i€.

II.

Friend Fohn, quoth the Judge, thou’ft no share in the

Matter,

To much Dullness, a Critic should add some I]-nature

In thy ‘Tail and thy Notes, we like Impotence find,

For a Critic and Husband thou ne’er waft design’d.

12.

Tom B—= next buftled to prefer his Petition,

But was jofiled aside by the Stamford-Physician.

In his Hand He the Text of Euripides brought,

Piping hot from the Press, but the Notes were forgot.

13.

He’s defir’d by the Court, he’d not trouble their Patience,

Paracelius and. Zoilus were never Relations ;

So off brufh’d the Critic to his Pills and his Boxes,

From patching up Authors, to curing of Poxes.

4.

Up H. t starts, and cries look ye here,

Une nouvelle Tradu@ion dat cat down Dacier 3

For de Metre let B and H fight and quarrel,

De Frenchman, degar, Sir, mult show you de Moral.

15.

What moral, you Dog, cry’d the Court in a Per,

Did ever a Critic turn Porali/ yer?

O’er vanquith’d Librarians we challenge our Praise,

Let Laney write Mora/s, or the Matter of Keys ?

16.

With that they untrufs’d the bold Critic of Paris,

And gave him the Nett/e, but over his bare Arfe:

The fmart of the Discipline dampt his Pretensions,

And he feour’d back to Whisk with his Cully Pebrene

17.

At length the Vice Cam: with his three P/ewdo Squires

Stalks in, and the Caute of the Turnult enquires ;

For Men of the Gown such Department’s not fitting,

Nor find In Statute for any such meeting.

[Page 2.]

18.

The Judge fmil'd at the Joke, and the squabble to fettle,

Said: Faith, let’s decree this ftern Cate the Nett/e:

He, alone, the true Critical Notion has hit,

For his Ediéts declare much Spite, and no Wit.

LONDON.

THURSDAY, Sept. 10.

Yesterday died at his Grace’s house in St. James's square

the D. of Cleveland and Southampton. C. P. He is fuc-

ceeded in dignity and estate by his eldest {on William E. of

Chicheller. P. D.P. S.7.E. W.E.

Laft night the corpse of Mr. Hodges, was interr’d from

Marlborough house, at St. Andrews Holborn, with great

funeral pomp and solemnity. Jéid.

On tuefday last the corpse of the M. of Annandale, who

died abroad, was landed at Whitehall, and ina few days

will lye in state in the Jerufalem chamber, in Westminster

Abbey, and be there interr’d in a vault with his father.

Ibid. E.P.

Thariday the 15th of O&. next is fixed for the Court's

snowing from Windforecaitle to St. James's. D.P. £.P.

The points in dispute between the courts of Great Bri-

tain and Prussia, being in a fair way of accommodation, Sir

Clement Cotterel, Knight, Matter of the ceremonies canie

to town yesterday from his feat at Twickenham, in order

to conduét his Excellency Count Degenfeldt, Envoy ex-

traordinary from the King of Prussia to his first private au-

ay of their Majesties, at Windsor. Jéid. E. P. W.E.

The Rattle Snake on board the Nelson was yesterday ta-

ken alive, means having been found to get it into a box,

Where it is at present tecured: it appears to be about 10

fect long. D. J. &%c.

Its written from Lisbon the 28th past, N.S. that by the

way of Brazil, they had received advice, of Bombafla, on

the African shore in the Red-fea, being retaken by the na-

tives, wy - had been long possessed by the Portu-

Yesterday a Committee of council fat at the cockpit, on

the attair relating to a {um of money advanced to Mr. Wood

deceas’d, towards carrying on the coinage of his copper half-

pence. Jdid. E.P.

Frivay, Sept. 11.

On Wednesday the Revd. Dr. Waterland was installed at

the Cathedral of St. Paul’s, into the Archdeaconry of Mid-

diefex, in the room of the Revd. D. Altham deceas’d. C.

D. P.

YeRerd.y the Porcupine was carryed from the Sword-

ble coffge-house, as a present to the R. H_ the Ear) of

Sunderland to his Lordship’s house in Piccadilly. C. D. P.

The R. Hon. the Err) of Crawford, Capt. of a treop of

dragrons, in the Regiment call’d the Scots Greys, stands a

Candidate to represent the Peerage of Scotland, in the room

of the Earl of Finlater deceased. Jéid. D. F.

Mrs. Lavina Befwick, ‘alias Fenton, who performed the

art of Polly Peschum in the Beggars opera, hath taken the

fou in old Bond-street, that the L. Elizabeth Wentworth

liv’d in, and is al out to fet up a very handsome equipage.

D.P.- Ladvife Poly in forming her equipage, in order

bo keep up to the humour of the Play, which fir raisd ber

to this evewation, instead of the Chariot to content berfeif

with a cart, to which her dear Captain bad jo jaf} a tit/e.

Eight of the receivers of the hali-penny toll, ot the turn-

_— at Hyde-park corner, Pimiico, Little Chelsea, Ken-

ington anc Fulham, were on tuefday night last committed

to the Gatehouse, Westminster, being accuied of having de-

frauded rhe Commissioners of the roads of about @co!. at

times, which they had equally divided among themselves.

D.P. E.P. S.F-E. These Gentlemen fecm to be men

o great honour, by dividing their profits equally among

ves.

Saturvay, Sept. 12.

We hear from Windsor, that the camp will break up in

abour 4 fortnight, having almost compleateu their work. C.

Yesterday one of his Majesty’s messengers arrived at

Whitehall, from his Fxceilency Mr. Keene, our Miniter

at the Court of Spain, with his dispatches for Wind{or. Jdid.

On Thursday 20 felons pass’d thro’ this City, from Lin-

coln Goal, and were put on board a vessel at Iron-gate, in

order to be tran{ported to his Majesty’s plantations in Ame-

rica. bid.

Yesterday between 3 and 4 o'clock in the afternoon dyed

in the 79th year of her age, the R. H. the Lady Viscoun-

tefs Tyreonnel. P.

We hear the D. of Hamilton and Brandon will oppose

the Farl of Crawford at the election of one of the 16 Peers

of Scotland, in the room of tke late E. of Finlster. 74. E. P.

le Ear} of Ila is to be made one of the Knights Brethren

of the noft antient order of the Thiille. Jéid. E. P.

Yesterday arrived an express from Spain, by which we

are credibly informed, the S.S. Company reveived the dif-

agreeable new’ of an order having been {ent from that

court, for the Viceroy of Peru, to cause the fair for the sale

of the goods which went by the Galleons from Cadiz, to

be held at Porto-Bello in O4. next, the benefit of which the

Company’s goods in the ship Prince William cannot pofii-

bly partake of, but it is hoped the notice will prove o short,

as to prevent its having the desired effet by the Spaniards.

D. Ff. E.P. 8. F.E. W.E. ---This cannot be judg'd an

att of Hostility in the Spaniards; but may rather be taken

for a Specimen of THEIR wit.

Letters from Constantinople of the 18th of July, confirm,

that the Ottoman Porte has declared war against the Sophy

of Persia. E.P. S.F.E.

Monpay, Sept. 14.

Windsor-Castle, Sept. 10. This day Count Degenfldt,

Minister of the King of Prussia, had his firit private audi-

ence of his Majesty, to which he was introduced by Lord

Harrington, and conduéted by Sir Clement Cotterel. C.

He had afterwards a private audience of the Queen, in-

troduced by the E. of Grantham her Majesty’s L. Chamber-

lain. Ibid.

Lait faturday night the deputy Marshal took up several

disorderly women in Fleet-street, and committed them to

the Compter, for their further examination before the Lord

Mayor. P.

TuEspay, Sept.15.

Extraét of advices from the Hague.

HE Arch-bypocrite Mor -n and others accused of the

unnatural crime of Sodomy have been cited a second

time, and its thought upon their not appearing at the third

citation they will be condemned to be hanged in efigic. C.

— I hope in time they will be all banged in propria persona.

*Tis wrote from a certain German court, * ‘That some

‘ officers having incurred their master’s displeasure, have

‘ been cafhier’d, {tripped of their regimental cloaths, and

« vested with coarse Giese frocks, fent to hard labour, and

order’d to be kept on bread and water. [did — This me-

thod of fending men of honour to Bridewel is perfectly new

to mes I long to knoto bow it would take, if the experiment

was tried on this fide the water.

Laft night Mr. Alderman Parsons, with his Lady and fa-

mily came to town from his feat at Ryegate. Jdid. D. F.

On sunday night Tho. Reeves was committed to New-

gate by Mr. Justice Deval, for privately stealing 1501. worth

of plate. Idid.

Yesterday Richard Daws was committed to Bridewel by

the Lord Mayor, for aiding and assisting one Johnson, &c.

convicts that lie for transportation in Newgate, with alarge

spring {aw, in order to cut off their irens and make their

escape. Ibid. -— I presume Mr. Daws will have rope enough

in exchange for his iron, though I can’t tell bow be will

hike that way of bartering.

Yesterday the Revd. Dr. Rochblave, Chaplain in ordi-

nary to his Majesty, was sworn in Preacher to the French

chappel royal at St. James’s, to which is annex’d a salary of

s6ol. perannum. D. P.

The Lidy Mary Wortley Montagu is dangerously ill at

her house in the Piazza Covent Garden. D. P. D. 7.

Sir James Wood, Coll. ofa regiment of foot, being ar-

rived trom Scotland, went yesterday to Windsor-caiile to

wait on their Majesties. D. ‘7.

The Carvlina, Capt. Webb, was lately loft on the coast

of Guinea. did.

On faturday last their Majesties and the Royal Family

took the diversion of hunting in Windsor-forest. Jdid.

Yesterday Dennis Cornish, who was turned out of New-

gate about three days ago, was committed to the faia goal,

by the R. H_= the Lord Mayor for stealing a handkerchiet.

Ibid. - This Gextleman it jeems liked his lodgings jo well,

that he was resolved not to Le long without them.

On friday night last died at her lodgings at Kensington,

the R. Hon. Eleanor, Dowager Lady Willoughby ot Par-

ham, whose jointure was 300 1. peraunnum. &. P.

We hear that the interment of his Grace the Duke of

Cleveland, will not be till about 6 weeks hence; and that

6 of the eldest Knights companions of the most noble or-

der of the garter will {upport the pall. Jézd.

On monday fe’nmight last the Commifhoners of the Ken-

fington, &¥¢. turnpike discharged ten of the:r collectors, and

on wefday, upon appiication to Justices of Pesce in tpecial

feflions, eight of tne aforesaid number were committed to

the Gatehouse; and on {faturday lati four of the inoit crie

minal were committed to Newgate, without bail or main-

prife, for detrauding the said Commulhoners in the collection

at their toll-gates: It is remarkable since that {et ot Collectors

were turned out, the toll of that turnpike hath rien trom

5 7. toupward of 7/. per day. Ldid.

On friday last a temale {pectator, who went out of cu-

riofity to iee the Indian Chiefs, watched her opportunity to

go off with the King’s fine sword belt; but carrying it toa

pawn-broxer’s, fle was dete¢ied, and the belt being rettor-

ed the King ordered the woman to be discharged out of

custody. fbid. §. F.£.

was buried at Windsor

_ We have advice from Holland that the drawing of the pre.

fent Utrecht lottery is deferred "till next monday fe’nnight

the 28th of this initant Sept. and that the Directors have refol.

ved to begin drawing then, or to make double restitution tg

the adventurers, as is confirm’d by the prints at Bridge’

Co ffee-house, where tickets in that, or in the Hague lotte-

ry may be procured, register’d or examined, and the prizes

discounted. §. F.E.

To morrow their Majesties intend to take the Diver.

fion of hunting the Stag in Windsor-foreit. Zé.

Lait night 12 disorderly men 2nd women were taken out

of several night houses by the informing constables, and

were this day examined at the vestry-room of St. Paul’s

Covent-Garden, before a Committee of Justices, who com.

mitted them to Tothill-fields Bridewel. Jéid. E. p.

This morning the Indian stag, that killed one of the Ear]

of Burlington’s Footmen, was thot to death by his Lorde

ship’sorder. Jdid. E. P. 4

This morning at five o’clock the body of the mistress of

the Black-horse alehouse in Collcge-street, Westminster, was

— drown’d in Rofamond’s-pond, in St. James’s-Park.

bid.

On Friday morning last, about two o’clock, Mr. Hooker

the brewer’s comptiny-house in Whitecroisestreet, was broke

open, and the tills belouging to the home and abroad clerks

were robbed of 50/. each. Jé/d.

The Reverend Mr. Barton, who was collated one of

the Prebendaries in the cathedral church of Chichester, b

Dr. Waddjngton, Lord Bishop of that Diocels,

install’d in that cathedral.

John Meredith of Gowry, in the county of Montgomery,

Eig; died there lately in the g5th Year of his age. Jj’

On faturday last died at Cranbury-house, Islington, Mr.

Jones, whole kiniman, Mr. Peter Jones of St. Mary-Ax,

died on the 7th ot dugu/? last, and iett him about 40,000 /.

Ibid.

Was lately

WrpNespax, Sept. 16.

Windsor-Castle, Sept. 11. Vhe King has been pleased to

promote Dr. Edward Tennison, one of his Majesty’s Chap.

lains in ordinary, to the Buhoprick of Otjory, in the King-

dom of Ireland, vacant by the death of Sir Thomas Vefey,

Bart. late Bishopthereof. C. P.

Ona monday night last James Rogers was carried to New-

gate, being committed by Justice Clifford, tor a ftrect-robe

bery, in taking away from a man in Roie-alley, Buliopigate-

street, his hatand 12s. in money. Jé/d.

Yesterday morning one of his Majesty’s Messengers arri-

ved from the Rt. Hon. the Earl of Cheilerfield, his Majee

fty’s Ambassador extraordinary to the States General, to

the Lord Harrington, one of his Majesty’s principal Secre-

taries of State, at St. James’s, and this day his Lordship

will fet out for Windsor. did.

On monday in the afternoon died, after a long illness,

Dr. Beal, Physician to the Charter-houte, a place worth

120]. per annum, and in the gift of the Governours of the

said house. Ibid. D. P.

On monday Col. Montagu, brother to the Earl of Mal-

lifax, who litely arrived trom Minorca, fet out for Wind-

for to waiton his Majeiiy, and was molt graciously re

ceived. Jdid.

Lait monday night the body of Richard Topham, E‘gs

Thid.

Yesterday Bevje1ain Clark was committed to Wood-street

compter, by Sir William Billers, for robbing Mrs. Mary

Mayor of goods and wearing apparel, to a considerable

value. P.

We hear that Sir Charles Hotham, Bart. will soon be fent

again to the Court of Prussia. And that a solemn Em-

bafiy will be fent unto the Court of Spain. D. P.

They write from Bristol, that Sir ‘Thomes Jones, Knt

was given over by his Physicians. /d/d.

Sir George Oxenden, Bart. one of the Lords of the

Treasury, and Member of Parliament for Sandwich, is

very much indisposed at his feat at Dean in Kent. Jdid.

His Majesty has been pleased to appoint Major Leigh-

ton, of Brigadier Barril’s regiment of toot, to be Major to

Col. Handatide’s regiment of soot and a Captain in the

fame, in the room of Major Skigh, deceaied; and likes

wife to appoint William Hook, Evg3 to be Major to Briga-

dier Barril’s regiment, in the roo: of the iid Francis

Leighton, Eiqs 9 12id.

PLAN TATION-NEWS.

It is wrote from Jamaica July 5. ‘Lhat roo white mn

° - . : " “i ’ , al } 44

being fent out against fume run-away blacks were all use

itroyed by thote negroes. P. S. F. E.

Jamaica, Fuly 4. Weare much turprica

WE.

Syait the Afi-

ento Snow, Capt. Rogers, which has been long gone tor ot

Jago in Cuba, is not yet retura’d, fearing fhe is detaln’d oY

thote baie people, on {ome preteace or other. Appict

tion having been made to Adini a} Stewart, he drpatea 4

his Majesty'’s Snow the Shark, for St. Jago, 16 days 340,

to enquire into the cauie of her i.y 5 ana bkew ¢ Wasi

effet the King cf Spain’s Scheaguls [or reoititution aati, OF

will have; but from what hath already spear’, we aa

no reason to expect any good from it. D. 7.

[Page 3.]

Annamabo on the coat of Africa, May 3, 1730. The

{carcity of negroes is greater than has been known these

many years, occasioned by the inhabitants of the fea coast

for many leagues [being] engaged in a bloody war with

their inland neighbours. Jd/¢.

Edinburgh, Sept. 3. Yesterday his Grace the D. of Ha-

milton, the Rt. Hon. the Earl of Selkirk, and the Ladies

Charlotte and Susan Hamilton, fifters of hisGrace the Duke,

arrived at the Abbey of Holy-rood-house. C. &c.

Yesterday a beautiful new vessel of near 200 tuns burthen

was launched from the dock in North-leith, and with the

pfual ceremonies was named the Mackenzie of Leith. °Tis

the largest that has, perhaps, been built in this place. [d/d.

Edinburgh, Sept. 7. Lait week the Rt. Hon. the Magi-

strates and Town-council of this city, unanimously resolved

(in order to discourage the importation of foreign {pirits) to

taste no spirits, but those of their own produce. C. D.F. P.

—— This is right presbyterian drinking, since by their

conduct we may infer, they have never been influenced with

any other spirits, but those of their own produce.

Yesterday two Gentlemen found in the Abbey church-

ard, a new born murther’d male child, wrapt up in a pe-

ruke cafe. Ibid.

This morning the correction-house was purged, and 20

ladies of the game fet out for Glasgow, in order for tranf

portation. did.

Dublin, Sept. 4. On wednesday last the Earl of Mon-

trath embark’d on board his Majesty’s yacht for England.

P. &c.

This week a woman was killed near the Linnen-hall, by

the sudden going off of a firelock, which a boy had in his

hand, not knowing it wascharged. Jd/d.

Londonderry, Aug 30. Two of our Burgesses have been

disfranchised, and William Richardson and George Vaughan,

Efqrs; were this day ele&ted in their room. It’s thought

more of the members will undergo the fame fate. id. ---

I commend the chamber of Derry for lopping off such rot-

ten branches, which if not taken notice of, might perbaps

endanger the root it/self.

Dublin, Sept.8. A pyrate floop of several guns having

lately appeared coasting between Scotland and the Isle of

Man, we hear the Port Mahone man of war will fail to

morrow in questof her. C. D. P.

The price of wool is lately risen foin the weftern parts

of this kindom, that it is daily brought up to this city to

be carried thither. did.

A few nights past a young woman, who keeps a punch-

house in College green, was {fo abused by 4 young Gentle-

men, that her life is despaired of, an infant being killed

within her, by the kicks and bruises they gave her. Jhid.

_ ——~ There must be a mistake in the Printer, (for the word

Gentlemen, read Rajcals) Gentlemen being incapable of using

any woman in such Circumstances, in jo barbarcus a manner.

Qn faturday last two drunken carmen watering their hor-

. ’ irate ieee drove in too far, and were drown’d.

id.

From the Pegasus in Grub-street.

In the St. Fames’s Evening-Post of Sat. Aug. 29th, was

the following Advertisement.

This day was respublifl’d, in 2 vol. 8vo. the 2d editi-

‘ onof Dr. Burner’s Treatiic of the State of the Dead,

* and of those that are to rife. Made English by Mr. Ear-

* BERY: With Remarks on each chapter, &&e.

i To the excellency of th’s performance Mr Cur tu his fe-

veral times publish’d the icllowing tettimony, under the

hand of a learned Person, who miuft be {uppoted to have

examined the moit carefully into the merits of the Work

* How I have treated Dr Burnet, I leave to the general

* sense of Mankind: I have tranfl.ted him faithfully, an-

* fwered him impartially, dealt with him coolly, and tet

* him right for publick reading. M. Earpery.

pon reading this, our worthy PresipeNnr appealed to

the general fenje of our Society, Wliciher the latter part of

this encomium was not a contradiétion to the tormer: be-

ing not able to comprehend, how « Person can be taid to

leave that to the general jenfe of otaers, which he at the

fame time detertaines by his own.

To the advertisement ab ve-mention’d, is added the

following assertion, I do hereby aflirm, that in a pre-

* tended Tranflition of this learn’d Work by Vir. Dennis

(under the faiie Title uf a Treatise of the State of depart-

ed Souls) he has not only in many places miapprenend-

ed Dr. Burnet’s meaning, but misconftrued his express

Words; and his, the said Desnus’s, version is very imper-

fect and negligently perform’d. Besides, Mr. Dennis

hath wholly omitted Dr. Buxnet’s Appen.ux to the

9th Chapter concerning the tuture Reftauration of the

Jews, the Millenians. éy¢. which ts a curious Traét, and

perfects the Author’s Scheme. This I thins imy {elf

oblig’d to declare in justice to Dr. Burner's memory,

and to Mr. Earspery’s merit, for his exccilent Trapfla-

~_ the judicious Remarks he has mae on the Work

elf.

Cambridge Aug. 20. 1730.

Cua. Price.

fs es eo ff x °

_ The Society was very much surprised. to fee an adver+

tisement of this nature, representing the-most Antient of

Critics as incapable of translating a modern Latin Author:

and more, to fee a Person, altogether unknown in the Com-

mon-wealth of Literature, setting himéelf up as an infalli-

ble judge of Translation, of whose name they had never

heard before. Mr. Dennis, Mr. Earsery, and Mir.

Cur Lt are names with which the learned World in general,

and our Society in particular, are well acquainted 5 but not

one of our Meinbers could give any account of this Cua.

Paice. . However, if there be really any such Person, who

wrote the charaéter above printed; there is no doubt but

that in a little time he will be better known to our Society.

As to the subject of this controversy we shall not at pre-

fent enter any further into it, but shall /eave it to the geue-

ral sense of mankind (which in genera] must necds be inte-

rested in it) to determine, which of the Translations of thete

two eminent Authors is the most exact, from their different

manner of trinflating the Title Page. De ffatu mortuorum

&F refurcentium oly This Mr. Dennis translates,

A treatise concerning the fate of departed fouls, before, and

at, and after the rejurreftion: Mr. RarBery thus, 4 7réa-

tife of the State of the Dead, and of those that are to rie.

Bavius.

Whereas, in our last, after the article concerning the

Rev. Mr. Henry's intent to put in for the prize in the

French Academy, the following remark was inserted, -—

That he has assurance for such an attempt is what no one

will doubt; that he bas acapacity is what every one will:

I think proper to acquaint the world, that it was not writ-

ten by me, nor by any of the Society at the Pegasus; but

wasinferted by a Person, who happened to be in the Print-

ing-house while the Paper was composing; an irregularity

which will be effectually prevented for the future. The

learned Reader, upon comparing this with the generality

of my remarks, will, I hope, be easily induted to believe

this account; and to acquit ine of having made {o incon-

fiftent, and fo false a Reflection. It is inconfiitent, because

barely to attempt a thing of this nature requires only a good

{tock of assurance; and therefore whoever has a/urance

enough, has capacity enough. It is falie, because every one,

who has-either heard Mr. Oraror’s ingenious Discourses

on fo great a variety of subjects, or read his learned Wri-

tings, cannot reasonably doubt of his capacity for any /uch

attempt or undertaking whatsoever.

Jerr. Quip-nuNc.

FOREIGN NEWS.

THuurspDay, Sept.10.

Late last night arrived the Mail due from Holland.

Paris, Sept. 8. N.S. The general opinion here is, that

the Spaniards will comply with the designs of this Court,

and put off the expedition till the spring. C.

Amsterdam, Sept 15. They write trom Moscow, that

Prince Thamas had beat the ‘Turkish army fent to relieve

Tauris. Jé:d. D. 7: &.P.

Extract of a Letter from Paris, Sept. 8.

T HE news that come from Spain, that things were not

Jo ready as was believed, for undertaking with fucce/s

the projected expedition, had determined this Court to infift,

a5 tt has done, to defer it till next spring. Our Court bath

&iven the stronge/ afjurances to Spain, that if during the

winter no accommodation can be broucht about with the Em-

peror, the necefary succours will be no longer delayed tho’

Jome are of opinion, that jomething will be undertaren this

. Sear in Italy, to be ready to act early next jpring, that Jo

considerable an armament, which has coff Jo much money,

may not be rendered ufele/s. DF. E.P. S.F-E.

Rome, Aug. 26. ‘The proceedings against the Beneven-

tines and others for mif{demeanors under the late Pontificate,

are carried on with great vigour, not a day passing without

{ome or other being imprisoned 5 its added that Cardinal

Cofcia had resolved to go and take the air cut of the gates

of this city, but his eminence being informed of a great

concourse of people being assembled to fee him, he changed

his resolution, for fear of being insulted by the mob. Jd/d.

Fripay, Sept. 11.

Vienna, Sept. 1. ‘The Pope having by his Nuncio here

declared to this Court, that he will einploy all his effurts to

preserve the peace o1 Europe, his Holinets has for that end,

jent iome particular instructions to his Nuncio, who has al-

ready had divers conferences with the Empxror’s Ministers.

The Minitter of Great Britain is likewise frequently in cone

ference with P. Eugene of Savoy, and the Vice-chancellor

of theempire. P.

Alicant, Aug. 30. The soldiers and tran{ports still re-

main here, and there is no alteration in the affairs of the in-

tended expedition since my last. D. .

SATURDAY, Sept. 12.

Leghorn, Aug.26. We hear that the Republick of Ge-

noa, to give fatistaétion to the malecontents of Corsica, will

r% 4 eet ce mrt oes * o's? “1. ae

consent to abolish all the offices and.impofts of which the

people there complain, upon condition that they furnish the

necessary {ubfidies for the maintenance of the Governor, the

Ministers of Justice, and the Garrisons. D. F. 8. F. BE:

Leghorn, Sept. 2. Our letters from the kingdoms of Na-

ples and Sicily are filled with complaints, of the hardships

the inhabitants suffer from the Germans, who make use of

all manner of ways and means to raise money; the Court of

Rome seems to be more uneasy, on the account of the great

number of German troops that surround their borders, than

from any Spprehension of danger trom Spain. Jdid. WE.

Vienna, dug.30. We have just now received advice from

Sicily, that a company of Gesnf® Soldiers being gone, by

the order of the Viceroy, to the Cafle of Palermo, to put

themselves into garrion there; the Burghers, who till then

had kept guard in that cafile, refuled to open the gates. to

theins; that some of the Soidiers having fired upon them,

the other inhabitants of the city rofe up in arms, and that

the dijorder had heen very consideraile. §.% E. L.E.

There hath lately peen a rumour about the town of a

very extraordinary occurrence at the court of Berlin; but

it is of too dark and tender a nature to bear any explanation

at present. Craftsman.

Monpay, Sept 14.

Yesterday arrived the Mai! due from Holland.

Moscow, Aug. 24. N.S. Betides the augmentation of

one company per regiment, the Czarina has signed orders

for raising 20,000 more men; General Wicfbach is nomi-

nated to command the troops upon the frontiers of Persia.

C. D. F.

Pat 3 Aug. 25. On the 23d about 9 at-night, their

Majesties, the Prince and Princeis of Aflurias, and the In-

fantes Don Carlos and Don Philip arrived here in good health

from Cazalla. Ibid. DP. &e.

Fragment of a private letter from Berlin, dated

_ Sept. 8. N.S.

HE Commissioners are return’d from Mittenwalde,

and the great personage is remanded to Kuitrin, hav-

ing made no answer to’the Interrogatories put to him, on-

ly said the King might do what he pleas’d. Ass for the re-

port of his living there at a florin per diem, we give no

credit to it, mean while another great personage being fuf-

pected of knowing the design, charged upon the former!!!

1! { memee the Princess Royal is indisposed! P.

Tuespay, Sept. 15.

Lucern, Sept.7. N.S. According to some advices, the

Pope has earnestly exhorted the Princes of his Communion

fo to order their affairs, that no foreign troops, but parti-

cularly no English or Dutch, may be introduced into

Italy. C

Copenbayen, Sept.9. ‘The King is still indisposed at

Odenfee, on thurfday arrived here a flip richly laden from

Spain, fhe was attack’d by three Rovers of Barbary * but

some other ships coming up, whose countenance the Moors

did not like, they left her, and fheer’d off. did. -

Palermo in Sicily, Aug.16. A terrible fire broke out

here, at a house in the High-street, and proper means not

being immediately used, and the wind biowing very high,

the adjoining houses, and soon after a great many more,

were all in flames, fo that all the buildings from the gate

of Vienna to the Arsenal were laid in ashes; and among

them the Jetuits college and the great tower, the Carmelites

church and the town -house were burnt down, but the re-

cords were happily fav’d; the fame evening the powder-

room of the royal baction, in which were at leatt 400 bar-

rels of gun-powder, blew up with the most dreadful reports

Whereby not only a part of that baction, but a great nuinber

of houses were demolished, and abundance of people buried

under the ruins; afterwards the Arsenal, with the little

magazine, wherein were a great quantity of fill’d bombs,

carcafles, and grenades,) were blown up; the damage done

by this fire is incredibly great, the Governor alone having

loit to the value of 20,000 rix-dollars in plateand furniture.

. Fi Sept.2. We have received orders from Vienna,

to fend forthwith to Mantua, under a guard of 300 inen,

300,000 pound weight of gun pow der, “ ith a great quan-

tity of cannon bullets, and other ammunition, \ ith winch

the magazines of this kingdom are till abundantly itored,

a Sept. 6. The Aulick Council of the Empire,

having considered on the report that Was given them b

the fubdelegate commissurics im the dutchy ot Mecaleme

bourg, touching the condutr ot Duke Charles Leopold,

since his return thither, drew up on the 23th of batt month

a decree on that tubject, to be presented to the Emperor 5

buc we know not the contents of it. Zdzd.

~S- *,

WEDNESDAY, Sept. 16. AES

Rome Aug. 26. Cardinal C cia is order’d by the c ~

pes $e

ser-congregation to refund to the chamber 36,000 crowsga

er-congreg e ch: 36,0 :

i.e the three years pension which he caafed hunielt toy

paid before hand, efz. 12,000 crowns a year usually

[Page 4.]

OEE A A I RN i cit el a

wan

low'd to the Pope’s nephews. Lid. —— This Cardinal

verifies the proverb of making bay while the Sun, Ge.

reafurer Negroni is order’d by the said Chamber to

pay immediately 53,000 crowns for having let the reve-

nues Of Ferrara and Comacchio, according to his own

fancy. Ibid. —— If be bad no other reason for it, me-

thinks be pays dear enough for bis fancy.

On Tuesday Stocks were,

South Sea 103. South Sea Annuity 108 : 4th. Bank

145 1 4th, a1 half, for the Opening. India 186. Three

per Cent. Annuity 96 1 half. Million Bank 108 1 half.

African 44. York Buildings 261 half. Royal Assurance

(1001. paidin) 91 1 half. London ditto (131. paid in)

12 1 4th a3 8ths. Bank Circulation 51. South Sea

Bonds 51. 10s. India ditto 51. 16s. English Copper

3l. 10s. Welfaditto 21. 15s.

The Course of Exchange.

Madrid 42 3 4ths

Bilboa 42

Leghorn 51 1 half

Genoa 54 1 4th

Venice 48 7 8ths

Lisbon 5s. 5d. a 7 8ths 6

Porto 5s. 4d. 7 8ths

Dublin 10 1 half

Amsterdam 34 8

Ditto at fight 34.5 a 6

Rotterdam 349 a10

Antwerp 35 3

Hamburgh 33 4

Parisat fight 32 5 8thsa rhalf

Bourdeaux at fight 32 1 half

Cadiz 42 5 8ths

Prices of Goods at Bear Key.

per Quarter per Quarter

Wheat ——19 to 27 Hog Peas ——15 to 17

Rye —— 12 to 13 Boiling Peas— 20 to 22

Barley — 12 to 15 Pale Malt 12 to 20

Oats) — 8 to 13 6| Brown Malt—12 to 17 6

Horse Beans 15 to Tares -—— 20 to 28

22

Coals 21s. to-23 s. per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 — 125. to 18s. per Hundred.

Hops 1729 -— 208. to 35s. per Hundred.

Hops 1730 — 403. to 60s. per Hundred.

Rape Seed 121. 12s. per Laft.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

To he Lett, -

(To be enter’d xpon at Michaelmass next)

Hovfe at T+ m ple. M:/!s, Hackney-Marsh, lately a Callicoe Prin-

ter’s; with Coppers, and other Conveniencies flandings aif

Growid and Water juticient, fit for the taid Business, a Distiller,

Brewer, Whititer, or | yer. Enquire at the said House, or or Mr.

Foha Middleton at the General Post Office, Lombard-street, and know

further.

This Day is published,

Number Il. containing 20 Sheets in Folie, Priee 3 % 6d. of

N Untversat History, trom the earicft Account ot Time

0 the present : Which compiizes not only che General tiottury

of the World, but that ot every particular Einpire, Kiadom, aid

State, from its first Foundaion to its Difeiucion, or to our Own

Time; with an exaét Accoust of the Migration, and Conquests ot

every People, (he Successions and Retyns of thor retpeciive Crinces

thei: Religion, Government, Customs, Learning, Seco Phe whoie

immediately extraGed from the original Aurhors, and illuftraced with

necessary Maps, Curs, Chionologtcal and o he. "Tab.es.

To be comainued Monthly. , ,

Printed for J. Batley in Pater-Nofler Row, E. Symon in Cornhill,

N. Prevolt against SouthampwurStrecc in the Sand, I’, Osborne TD

Gray’s-inn, and J. Cr katt near St. Dusnitans Church 1n Fleet

Street; and fold by T. Vayne ar the Crown in Ivy Lane, near Pater-

Noiter Row; of waem may be had Numod I. - pay

N. B. Number il. is in the Press, aad w iil be speedily pub'uth d.

On Wonday nevt will be published,

HE Lire ot MAHOMET. yt vaslated irom the French Ori-

T ginal written by the Cowatot Boulainviilters Auchor of the i ve-

fene State ot France, and of the Mifforital Memoirs theicto iv.bjoined.

Tis tone, Compoling is the Nobler Part, .

Bat good Translation ts no ealy Art. Roscommon.

Printed tor W. Hinchliffe, at Dryden’s Head under the Royal-Ex-

ehange-

This Day is published,

(Written originally for the Entertainment ef the King by the celebrated

Madam de Gomex,)

SEcxer Memoirs of the Covat ot Persra. Printed for

Weaver Bickerton, in Dev ereux-Court, near the Middle- Temple.

Price § Se of whom may be had, : Wy ;

I. The Cwrions and Proefitabie Gardener, with a Description of

the Great Aloe and Terch Thifies. By Mt. COWELL of Hoxton.

Il. Dr. Wood's Anatomy of the Heart, and Origin and Circulation

of the BLoop. : a

Ill. A View of the present Affuirs of IRELAND; containing a

Litt of Ansexrers, and Moceit Propofil. By Dr.Swirt.

This Day is pudlihes, . nf

An OCCASIONAL WRITER.

En! evitanquam '

Tile dies, mihi cum liceat tua dicere fatia ?

En! erit, wt liceat totum mibt serve per orbem? Vincit.

Printed for A. Moon £ near St. Pauls, 730. and foid by the Book-

feliers, and at the Pamphlet Shops, of London and Westminster.

[ Price 6 d.]

Co be Sold, :

By RICHARDWGARE, at the Bible and Sun in Warwick-lane,

at Amen-corner,

AV*y large Quantity of large House Bibles in Folio. To which

is ince added, A brief Concordance ior the more ealy finding our

the usual Places therein contained. by J. Dowsame, B.D. And

aify fix Maps of jacred Geography.

1+ Shewing the Situation ef Paradice.

2+ The Peopli: g of the World by the Sons of Noane

3. A Pian of the Holy City of Jeruialem, with a@ view of sdte-

MON’s Temple,

4 The Holy Land divided into Twelve Tribes ot Isrart, &e.

so The Laud «f CANAAN.

6. ‘The Travels of St.,PauL, and the rest of che Apostles, very

neauy bound in Calves Leather, at al. 6s. per Bouk, cll the whole

is diipvied of.

"here may be had, lately published,

1. A curious Set of Bible Cutts; containing near 300 Histories

evgraved by Mr. SrurT, beund up with the above Bible, at 21. 5s.

pt Book. Fine Paper at 31. 35.

2. Impartial Churchman: Or, a fair and candid Representation of

the Exceliency and Beavry of the Church of England. Together with

in earne@ and affectio ace Address co che Proveitant Diticnters. By

RospextT WARREN, D.D. Price 3s. 6d.

3. A Treatise of Archite@ure, with Remarks and Observations by

that excellent Master ciereot, SEBASTIAN LE CLERC, hynight of

ihe Empire, Deligner and Engraver ot the Cabinet ro the late krench

King, and Member of the Academy of Arts and Sciences. Necessary

for young Peupl: who would apply co that moble Aite Engraven on

i8. Copper Places. By John Scurte. Translated by Mr. Chainbers.

Price ty8 |

4. Embiems for che Entertainment and Improvement of Youch,

containing po gd si aid A.ngmatical Devices relating to ail

Paris and Statlons o

in French, Spanish, Italian and Latin, alluding to them, and transla-

ted into Engithe ‘The whole cusiously engraved on 62 Copper

Plates. Price 2 6d.

s- The Compleat Constable, directing Constables, Headbo: coughs,

Tychingeman, Chaich-wardeus, Overseers of the Poor, Surveyors ot

the Hiphway, ang Scavengers, in the Duty of their Office, accord-

ing to ihe Power allowed them by the Laws. Piieis.

6. Tyadeiman’s Guide, Containing a Lift of all che Stage Coaches

anv Carriers; with an Account ef all the Fairs and Market Towns

in La .iand. Price 1s.

This Day is reshiifher,

N APPEAL to the genuine RECORLS and TESTIMONIES

of Heathen and Jewish Writers; being ivi] Evipexce for the

‘euch of the Christian Religion, and its primitive Doétrines. In fe-

veral Contrrences. Part I.

The Truth of the Bottom is plainly this: All the great Things that

modern Deifis affed to fay of Right Reason, as to its Sufficiency

in discovering the Obligations aud Motives of Morality, is only @

Presence to be made afe of, when they are opposing Coriftianity.

Dr. Giarke in his Boyle's Lectures.

Refrain not to {ocak when there ti Occasion to do Good: Strive for

the Trath np to Leath, and the Lord shall fight for thee.

Ecclul. ive 23. 28.

Printed for L. Ginn1ven at Homer’s Head against Sc. bunftan’s

Church, Fieet-ftieer. Price ts. Gd.

Where may be had, jf? publift'd,

An Essay, founded upon Ar,uments Natural and Moral proving

he Lmmartality of the Soul. Translated trom the original MSS. ot

the Archbishop of Cambray. Price is.

BOOKS printed for JoHN BRoTHERToN, at the Bible next che

Fleece Tavera in Cornhill.

Biair’s Sermons, 5 Vols.

Life of Oliver Cromwel

Gordon’s Geog. Grammar

Boileau Oevie poetique

Pilgtim’s Progrets

Tales of the Fairies, 3 Vol,

English Tutor

Musical Dictionary

Shakelpear’s Plays

Congreve’s Works

Garih’s Ovid

Cambdei’s Britannia

Burkit on the New Testament

L’Hilrange’s Josephus

Tillotfun’s Works, 3 Vols.

Bacon’s Works, 4 Vols.

Lock’s Works, 3 Vol.

Oldenburgh ot Exchanges

Addison’s Works, 4 Vols. 4to

Putfend ri’s Law ot Nature

Bailey’s Dictionary, fol,

Woo.’s Institutes, tol.

Carckas’s Rates, fol. Boyei’s Telemachus

Stevens’s Spanish DiGionary Meige’s Scaic oi Britain,

With Variery ot single Plays and Vamphiets.

This Day is published,

hoe Numb. IV. of

Iforia Literaria : Or, an exa€t and early Account of the

mott valuable Books published in the several paits ot

Europe... .

Floriferis ut apes in faltibus omnia Libant

Omnia nos itidem, Lucret.

To which is added; The present State of Learning, Ex-

traéts of several Letters from Helmitadt, Hamburgh, Bou

deaux, Paris, Amsterdam, London, and a Catalogue of new

Books imported during the Month of August, by N. Pre-

yoit and Comp.

Printed and fold by the said N. Prevost, over against

Southampton-street in the Stran}, and E. Sy oa in Cornhill,

and to be had at J. Batley’s in Pater-nottes Row, J.Crokait

and L. Gilliver in Fleet-street, T. Osborn in Grays-Inn,

and T, Payne in Ivy-lane, Svo, London, 1770.

Wh here may be bad, Number 1. IL. and IIL.

ee

“LONDON: Printed by A.

ewer eee «lee Oe wT +e —— ee

(Price Two Pence.]

Lite, together with Explanativns and lroverbs |

This Day is Publier,

ARRtan’s History of Alexander's Expedition. Translated fromat;

Greek, with Notes Historical, Geographical and Critical, -

J. Rooke, 1n 2 Vols. Tow hich is pitefixed, Mr. Le Clerc’s Criticifan

upon Quintus Curuus, and Remarks on Perizonius’s Vindication of

that Author. Printed tor LawiouG'!liver against St. Dunstan’s Church

in Fleet-street. Where may be had, juit published,

I, The History of the Council of Co n.ance. Written in French b

James Leniant, and now translated trom the last Amsterdam Edition

ang illustrated with curivuus Copp-r Plates. In 2 Vols, gto. Likewise’

II. Freswoys New Method of studying History. Translatec

Dr+ Rawlinson. In 2 Vols. 8vo. Price ios. ated by

uk Publishes,

In a neat Pocket Volume, t’rice 25.60. the Se

ditions of

HE Intelligencer. By the ceiebraced Author of the Tale of T

Onne vafer vitine videnti Flascns awice aT ub,

_ Tangit, (> Admiffus circum pracordia indie,

Containing, The inhospitable Temper ot Squire Wether. AY;

dication cf Mi.Gay, and the BegearsOperae The Folly of Gamine,

A Deiciiption ot what the World calis DifCretion. A Re relew

tation of the picient Condition ot Ireland. The fot _

rulodes and Lugenio, A Dialogue between Muiiniz and 1 Co

thy. The teolifh Methods ot Education among the Nobiin,

Tim. and Gay’s Fables. Proposals in Picie anc Verte for Pap: :

versal View ot the eminent Writers of che Holy Scriptures. “an

Ralph the Patriot turn’d Coursiers The Art o1 Story-telling, p “

metheuss Art of Manzmaking, and che Tale of a ‘T--d, a

Services the Draper has done his Country, and the Steps tak

ruin it The Adventures of the three Brothers, George pe te

and Andrew. = ‘The M.rks of Ireland's Poverty, theyn is a

dent Provts of its Riches. Sts Aucrew’s Day, and the p . rect

Birth day. The Jhardfhips of the Irith being deprived mpi

Suver, anddecoy’d into America. Dean smediey gone fo { k hi

Fortune. The Pheaiant and the Lark: A Fable, 7 On

Printed for, and fold by Francis Cogan, oi the Middle-

in Flcet-street.

cond Edition with, 4a-

Tue published,

In 2Vols. 8v0. Vrice bound 105,

TUIRTyY NINE SERMONS Dy the late Rey,

A.M. Reétor of the United Parishes of Sr. George the M

and St. Mary Magdalen in Canterbury, and ot Mersham iy, Ke arty s

one vt the {ix Preachers of the Cathedral Church of Canterbur: i? os

the manuicript Copy, prepared by himielt tor the Press; (there eas

several Copies of some of the Sermons abroad in Writing, & ft. ——

at che Request of the Counteds of Coventry, and other Dettmer a

Rinstion.) On the following Heads and Occasions, vtz. Of F or

Of Happiness. Of coming toChrif. Of Vanity, Of Righteox{nef, —

perance, and Judgment to come. Cleaun:{s mifaken. Of God's o =

science. On Prayer. Of Friendship with God. Of the Enmis a

Devil. Of Resolution in Faith and }ra@ice. Of : roving pA, | -

vering. The Natare of Cleanne{s. Naaman’s Cure. Of Vision —

lation, and Repentance. Of Zeal when commendable. When fault, "The

Crown of Blifs and Glory, The Rightcews Man's Renard. The 3 hed

Man's Lot, The Blessedness of Mourning. The Blefiedness of Meeb ~

Mercy to the Merciful. Of Purity in Heart. Of holding fafi =

Fatih. Godly Fear and Obedisnce. Of Covetuufne/s. Of the Sabbatk

Sion preferred. Of Superflition. The Difficulty of Salvation. —

Fokn Cook,

Peter's Denial, On the Fifth ef Nowember; preached before oP sia

Hvufle of Convocation, wh» requested this Sermon to be princed

Printed by Z.C. tor L. Ginniver, at Homer’s Hea

Dunitan’s Church in Fleet-street. d again St

To Masters of Ships, Country

Shop-keepers, &c. this pub-

lick Notice is given,

tate. tes yawd tiga sped. Cogjun&ion with Mr.

‘ om * (CO Wher &@ Koya. Patevt is granted) Thomas

Cobb) in Right of Elizabeth his W:e, late Widow ot Mr. Cluer)

aad lvobert Raikes, contisue, and jody carry on che pepaiing and

vending, buth Wholesale and Ketuil, thi excellent Medicine calisd De

Bateman’s Peétoral Diops, at their Warehouse apainit the Southodece

ot Bow Church, at the further End of the Church-yard trom C) eane

five, London, at which Place (ana no other in the City ot ended

Retailess may be turnished, with good Allowance tor Profit, by din

redctiny or lenuing to Willram Dicey or ‘Thomas Cobb ard Company,

at che Warelhvule aforesaid.

Nurs, You are ceived to observe, that this is the old accustomed

Warehouse whence ail retail Traders trom London wy ere served with

the avovementioned Drops in the Lite-time ot the late Mr. Join

Cluer.

N. B. Rosear Boy of Liffington in the County of Lincoln, hi-

ving been afflicted with violent Rheumstick fains for many Years

all over his Boay, and aiter having tried all othe: Means in vain,

and being reduced to fo weak and low a Condirion that he could

not stir outot his Bed, having the Use of al] his Limbs taken from

him; but on hearing of the yreat Fame of Dr. Baceman’s Pe&oral

Drops, he fent to Mr. Wood, Bookfeiller, ot Lincoln, {or a Bottle

there.f, and on taking the firit Dofe he receiv’d immediate Ease,

and a tew Bottles pertormedamirecul us and perfe& Cure; and ai-

tho’ it he near 12 Months since the fame was effected !e has not had

the least Symptom of anyReturn. The Truth of chis wiil be arrested

by the said Rorenr Born, or any ot his Neighbuurs, any Market

Day, at rhe Carainal’s Cap in Liacoin.

For the Benefit of thof who are affi€@ted w th the DROPSY,

Elizabeth Knell, who lives next Door to te Baker and

Bask tin Middle-street, Cloti-fair, near Weit-!mitlifield,

TILL continucs to p-rform grat Curs in the fad

Distemper, on both Sexes, and all Agcs,

N.B. An Account may be had of several Cures at ths

Plee: aforesaid.

~ ome

LONDON: Printed by A. Moore, for Captain Gulliver, near the Temple, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in.

[Price Two Pence.]

