The Grub-street Journal.

Numb. 42.

Thursday, OCTOBER 42, 1730.

a=

The choiceft Books, that Rome, or Greece have

known,

Her excellent Translators made ber own.

Bul now, we shew the World a nobler way ;

And in translated verse do more than they.

E. of Roscommon’s Ef, on tranfl. verse.

According to our Declaration in our 38th Journal, con-

cerning our impartiality, we here publish two Letters,

in answer to two published lately by us, one in our 37th,

and the other in our 39th.

{Yo Mr. Bavius, Secretary of the Grubean Society.

From the North, Sept. 23, 1730.

Sut PON reading your Journal of the 17th

init. Numb. 37, I cou’d not excuse my-

self from fitting down, to write the

following Animadversions upon your

learned Correspondent’s Letter concern-

ing translating the Greek and Latin

Poets into English Prose. I must own,

that in a language capable of doing justice to our Masters

the Ancients, as the English must be allowed to be, if any

modern language whatever; when we can bring them

abroad on their Pegasus with honour, to dismount such

gallant Gentlemen, and fet them on foot, in such a vile

paltry garb as our Prose-translators do, is offering them

the greatest violence imaginable. ’Tis robbing them of

all their riches and ornaments, and only not murthering

them quite: and which is the worst, all this is pretended

bie dene out of kindness to them. And yet I don’t

know, whether They have not equipp’d them itill worte,

if possible, who, instead of Pegasus, have mounted them

upon an ambling A(fs, as many of our modern Veififiers

have done.

It were very much to be wished, that all the choiceft

flowers of the Ancients were transplanted into our English

foil, under the management of skilful Undertakers; since

fo many of them have already been naturalized with very

great success. This is the best way of enriching a language, and in which the French have gone before us

with very great applause, in the Prose-Authors especially ;

and have very fuccefsfully laboured in the refinement of

their language above all their neighbours. There is

no question but the English Tongue will bear the file:

because it has more folid and improveable substance to

work upon, than the flippant Dialect of the French, had

we but equal encouragement for fo useful a work, anda

Society for the advancement of the Belles Lettres; which,

I question not, would do as much honour to our Nation,

asall the labours of the Philosophical Fraternity.

If the Poetical Generation, instead of ranging themselves into Parties, and tearing one another's little Name

wt sneer would close amicably in a design of fo much

ulefulness, and constitute a Society for the propagation

of the ancient Poetical Spirit amongst us, it would tend

much more to the raising their own, as well to the

Glory of the Nation. For they can’t but know, that

the great Genius’s of former ages were ever, either jntjmate Friends, or spoke very candidly of each other: and

to that very friendship and communication of studies,

Pethaps, is to be attributed their excelling fo much the

rest of Mankind. Whilst our Wits take the quite con-

a course, and think they can’t establish themselves

Without pulling down their Rivals; whereas the only

Way to ensure their own fame, is to be tender of that

of their Equals, and mutually to give and take applause

Where ’tis just. If our Beaux Efprits would engage in fo

nourable an undertaking as this, and make Poctry truly

beneficial, instead of being prejudicial to Mankind, we

might then find a proper employment for these Prose

ntlemen; who without a call have put forth their un-

hallowed hands to the Ark of Poetry, and have shaken

ut worse than all the shocks of a long conveyance

rough the most barbarous hands. Whilst they have

made themselves rather Foot-men than Knights Compahions to the sacred and most noble Order of Pocts. We

Pet then justly fend those Gentlemen to their proper

vince, the translation of Prose Writers.

And indeed there is work enough for them among the

Hifterians; whom I can’t but lament that we

have not endeavoured, as well as the French, to make

our own. It gives a grace and value to a language, to

have all the Ancients, that are truly estimable, free of

its and to find them {peaking it with their native ele-

oan. This does as much honour to a Nation, as the

ower of the chief Nobility does to a Prince’sCourt. But

a Work of fo much judgment, diligence, and capacity

ought not to be the task of any but such as can go immediately to the Originals themselves, without taking up by

the way witha French Translation; which, I’m inclin’d

to think, is the usual custom. And yet every dull Pedant, who is master of the learned languages, is not

equal to such a work as this neither. A temperament

of Poetical Spirit will be found very requisite in the trans-

fufing of ancient Authors, or their sense will become very languid and flat; and the flavour and race of the

Original will be apt to evaporate. There are peculiar

elegances in every language, and every polite Author

has his Manner, which will demand a Translator of. equal

7.

delicacy to hit pon it, SP SSSE SSE e®

But to consider a little what your learned Friend fays,

concerning the translating of Poets into Prose. Would

any Man that wishes well to polite Learning have rather had Homer, Sopnocies, Anacreon, Horace, &c.

to have continued lock’d up in a learned language, not

to be come at by every Reader without abundance of

difficulties, than to find access to them in French Prose,

with as much dignity as that would admit of, by the two

Daciers, and their sense render'd familiar and easy by

their incomparable illustrations ? Or will this Gentleman fay

the learned Frerch Lady’s Prose Translation of Homer ts

not a noble performa, and has done strict justice to

her Author ? And what is most confidrablre, the French

Language was of itself far from being fit for such an Undertaking without a veryy masterly hand; which is the

greater honour to Madam Dacier, for attempting it with

fo great success. In a Word, I think the Fretch

very well be allowed to translate the antient ! cts into

Prose, because their Language will nct fufter it to be done

to any advantage in Verse; and since the instance before

us shews, that Homer is flill an heroic Poet in French

Prose, let them enjoy their Privilege.

Besides, the best Critics assure us an Heroic Poem may

be written in Prose as wellas Verse, as Te/emachus tor

example: and therefore this Gentleman’s Criticitm happens to be but a cavil. It must be owned there are _peculiar happinesses and elegancies of expression in Poetry, which cannot be attained in Prose: but these are not

the chief excellexcies of Poetry, as this new Critic mistakes

himself; and making these allowances, the Poet’s Spirit and elevation of thought, and all his other beauties

and perfetions, bating a little of the diction, may be

preserved in Prose by a Translator of Genius. And therefore there may be very poetical pieces written without

Verse: for, excepting the Versification, and a little finarter

turn of expression, these gain nothing by being only

put into metre; yet there is no absurdity at all in giving such Compositions as these, the more mufical and

agreeable run of Numbers, which has been often done

to advantage by skilful hands.

But to return to ourselves. We who have both Numbers and Poets, capable of teaching the Greek and Latin

Mufes to speak our language with not much inferior

elegance to their own, to suffer them to be debated to

English Prose, in us is unpardonable, and can’t be too

much exposed. If you think the Translation, I herewith

fend you, may be a means of inciting other young Gentlemen, of a Poetical Turn, to rescuefome others of the

most delicate Pieces of Antiquity out of the bafe hands

of those Sons of Prose; to give it a place in your Journal will oblige one of your constant Readers. It has been

already attempted by {everal eminent hands in Latin, and

once in English; and will be ever looked upon as one of

the most tender and elegant Pieces the Ancients have

obliged us with. The Author of this Translation intends to offer to the Public in a little time a Specimen

of a Work of another nature, viz. reconciling the

Hebrew Text and Sept. Version, and fixing the true

Text of both by a collation of all the Oriental Verii-

ons, &c.

Iam, Sir, yours, 7. ©.

The Refleétions in this Letter upon the Translator of Ho-

MER Wercomitted, in deference to our worthy Pxssipant,

ie

who intends to pablish a Criticism upon both the Iiad and

the Odyfoy, as soon as the difficulties, which have hitherto

hindered ‘the execution of {6 great a design, shall be fur-

mounted. The Translation of Bion, which came inclo-

fed in the Letter, is under the consideration of the So-

ciety; who return the Gentleman who fent it, their hearty

thanks, and shall be glad of the favour of a further cor,

respondence.

Mr. Bavits, Of. 19, 173°.

‘TI S avery easy matter for a man to fay a featence is

good and true Latin, because at the same time, he

may have an eye to a similar one in a Classic Writer: but

it 1s not fo easy to pronounce the contrary; because this

supposes a most exaét knowledge of the Genius of a tongue

long since dead, and an intimate acquaintance with all

the Writers in it. But this notwithstanding, in your 39th

Fourral, Caledonius has ventur’d to charge Mr. Taytor

with false Latin, im a/mof? every page of his admvable

Oration: and, to support his charge, he cites the very

first sentence, Vix arbitrabar fore, Academici, eum, gut

ex hoc dicendi loco hodierno die verba fit fafurus, guid-

quam proferre oportere, quod &%c. Now I us'd to be

taught at School, that an Infinitive might at pleasure be

resolved into a subjunétive with guod or wt, and vice versa :

fo that, for my part, I make no manner of scruple of ad-

mitting Mr. T—'s text, any more than of Cazg-

DONIUs’s comment. But fore is an exception to this rule,

and allows of no Infinitive; fo fays Cavepontvus indeed

but yet fore here is no more than accidere, which word

I do aflirm to be us’d by Cicero with an Infinitive after it.

But as to fore itself; what think you of this, Mr. Bavius,

in the fame Cicero, Quafi divinarem tali in officio fore,

mibi aliguando expetendum fiudium tuum? and of this

in SALLust, Tamen in rem fore credens universos appel-

lare, ‘S cobortari, in abditam partem edium feceffit.

Ard now, Mr. Bavids, I appeal to. Here's a

general outcry of fel’e Latin alimost in every page of the

Oration 5 and one liugles and that, as it appears, an ill-

grounded inttance, is produced. If the Critic has really,

as he would insinuate, other proofs in flore, he had done

well to have pitch’d upon one more flagrant and uncond

tefled: but it one may judge of the rest by this, Mr.

T needs not fear a very dangerous, howsoever warm,

} adversary in CALEDONIUS.

But here follows a charge, which, I dare fay, Mr. T--»

is much more concern’d at, than any thing of false Lati-

nity: his candor, his impartiality, his veracity is call’d

in question. For Careponius fays, that "tis — to

Hiffory, and matter of fact, that the King was fold by

the Scots. Now this 1s more than any considerate per-

fon has ever yet said: far besides, that it was a thing fo

currently believed in the times that immediately succeeded

the transaction, as to go into a provero, cotemporary

and very able Historians {peak of it without relerve, and

a late very judicious Foreigner Ieaves it in iufpence. Again

Caledonius misrepresents his Author, he jays Mr. T.---

taxes the who/e Natior: Whereas, in truth, he fays no such

thing; but most undoubtedly must be understood, as speak-

ing chly of that part of the Nation, whom he supposes

concerned in the affair. ‘That the whole is often put for

a part, is What every Rhetorician teaches; and it is most

evidently fo here, unless you can {nppose Mr. T

absurd enough to think, that the whole Nation, man, wo-

man and child, were transplanted into the Scottish ar-

my, to be made parties in the bargaia. So, as often as

Foreigners have occasion to {peak of the 30th of Jan. they

freely fay, I don’t doubt, in their several languages, that

the English, or English Nation took off the head of their

King: and should any Englishman be present at the using

of such an expression, tho’ his Ancestors had been the

most loyal of Loyalists, yet, unless he was himielf as hot as

Caceponius, he would be far from resenting, or even

misunderstanding it.

But to return to the matter of fact; Mr. T. says it, and Caledonius denies it. Whom are we to believe?

Mr. T---, to be sure, as soon as one we don’t know whom.

The former was not at enmity with the Scots Nation,

had no spite or known prejudice against its fo the

nothing could induce him at this time of day, to {ay an

harsh thing, bet the downright love of truth: whereas the

latter wears his badge onenly, and declares himself to be

a party concerned, a Scotsman, : therefore highly of-

fended. But be the matter of tect never falle, it Mr

T —— spoke his thoughts about it, as there is no manner

[Page 2.]

Ve SCY F

by of doubt Lut thet hedid, he is much lef to be ‘blamed for

om involuntary mistake, than the Gentleman, for charging

fm openly, and without any proof, with falfhood, in

te oint at the best very dubious. But Caledonius, who

eetweed much beser have stifled his resentment, than have

Memeficr’d it to blaze out fo outrageously, himself talks of

Meeiaehe tenderness of these subjects at this time of days and

Weeaencrefore in prudence should have been cautious of meddling

a meth an old fore. What was said by this Author, was

eM laid in a learned language; and therefore, “tis by his own

7 means if it becomes a common topic.

Your constant Reader

Britanno-Scotus.

Since this Gentleman here appeals to me, I think myself obliged to say some thing on this occasion. bd in-

fami illa, &F in omnem memertan execrabili Scotorum

gente nundinatum, Fc. is a very general and severe ex-

reffion; and might well provoke the resentment of a

erson zealous for the honour of his Country. This

might naturally draw from him that too general charge,

that the Oration was fal/e Latin in dlmoff every page.

As to the instance which he gives, he fays only, that it

is bad Latin, a term some what foster than fal/e Latin;

which I take properly to mean a folecism, or a grofs

offence against the rules of Grammar; whereas by the

former is only meant an inaccurate way of expression,

not agreeable to the purity of the Latin tongue.

The Question here is, Whether fore may be used with

an ‘accusative cafe and infinitive mood following it, in-

stead of a conjunction with a nominative cafe and a fub-

junétive mood? Whether one may fay, Vix arbitrabar

fore, «..+ eum... guidquam proferre opportere; as well

as fore, ut is, &c? In vindicatlon of the former expref-

fion, this Gentleman fays, that fore here is no more than

accidere: to whichI cannot assent, because accidere can-

not be here substituted in the place of fore, the tenfes

being different. He adds an affirmation, that accidere is

used by Crcero with an Infinitive after it: of which I with

he had given an instance. If he hints at that place in

his Epistles zon enim acciderat mibi opus eff; this will

not prove, "that accidere mibi opus effe is likewise ele-

gant Latin.

In vindication of Mr. T——’s ufe of fore, he brings

two quotations, one out of Cicero, and the other out of

Sat.ust. In the former he has placed, [ will not fay

artfully, a comma after fore, which I do not find in any

of the Editions I have consulted, and which indeed ought

not to be there. The passage is in the Epift. ad Fam.

Lib. Il. 13. Quafi divinarem, tali in officio fore mibi

aliquandoexpetendum studium tuum: fic, etim de tuis re-

bus geftis agebatur, inferviebam honori tuo. Fore mutt

Pnecessarily be joined here with expetendums which makes this

~ instance nothing to the purpose. The other taken

from Satiust in Be//. Catalin. comes pretty near, but

not quite up to the point. For to make the two places

exactly parallel, fe should have been either expressed, or

pecefluelly understood: and the passage should have run

TIamen in rem fore credens, ({e] universos appellare, & co-

bortari, €c. the want of anaccufative cafe after fore, and

placed in ion before an infinitive mood, is a cir-

cumftance which hinders this passage alio from deciding

the Question in dispute.

Bavius.

LONDON.

W.E. Whitehall Even. Post

L.E. London Even. Po.

L.J. Loudon Journal.

F. Fog’s Journal.

Cr. Craftsman.

Un. Sp. Universal Spefator.

C. Courant.

P. Poi Boy.

D.P. Daily Pof.

es Daily Journal.

E.P. Evening Po/.

S.J. S. fames’s Even. Post.

Articles of great importance omitted in our last.

Some time since died at Pinner in Hertfordshire, Mr.

Steph. Crisp, a Dissenting Minister. 2£.P. 8. —— Sat.

last Ric. Booker, a Journey-man Shoe-maker, cut his throat

with his working knife from ear to ear. 4 Ev. — Thursday

morn. died Mrs. Haggard, Wife of Mr. John Haggard, an

eminent Distiller at Bromley near Bow. E. P. S. F. to.

Laft night 2 men and 4 women were brought from

the Gatehouse to Newgate, to take their trials at the enfu-

ing Sessions. D. F. 12. Laft Sunday morn. the mad

Joyner of Barbican left a coffin filled with a great many non-

ienfical Papers, &c. S.F%. L.E. 13. Some enemies of

our Society affirm, that these were News-Papers.

TuursbDay, O@. 15.

Thursday Capt. James Duglas shot himself, at his habita-

tion in East-Smithfield. C. W.E. Douglas. D. P. E. P.

S. 7. —— The fame day the Master of a Night-house

without Temple-bar, went to a lewd house in Parkhurit-

lane, and there hanged himself dead in his garters. E P.

: 8. F.— Our unfortunate Brother The Weekly Register Zas

bere corrupted the original, instead of ewd houseinferting

Nanny-house; and abused a great ornament of our Society,

the late learned Mr Motteaux, with the opprobrious appel/a-

tion of a Hanging-Cull. 4 moral Mahometan would have

forborn fach a vile reflection upon the dead. — Yesterday

one Emerson, a prisoner in the Fleet, hanged himself on the

common fide. D.P. EP. S.%.—~The fame day ore

Jenoway, a Taylor, in Butcher- all Lane, Newgate-street,

who had been mifling ever since Sunday, was found hang-

ing in his own room. DP. E.'P.——— One Mr. Vande-

vold, Clerk to a diflenting Congregation at Founder’s-Hall,

was found hanging in his lodgings in Crown-Court, Butcher-

Hall-Lane. D.F. 8S. Ff: W.E. L.E.——~ I take this

Jenoway the Taylor, and Mr. Vandevold to be one and the

fame Fn so The Daily Journal of the 16th fars his name

was Denovele; and that be was Pew-keeper, and vot Clerk.

One would imagine, that, as the French fay, these

were the dark days in November when the Englifo hang

themselves.

Laft night the corpse of the late R. Rev. Dr. Wili. Tal-

bot, L. Bishop of Durham was interred ina very solemn

manner, in the Parish-Church of S. James’s Westminster.

P. E.P. W.E.

It was the R. H. the L. Nassau Pawlet, Kn. of the Bath,

&c. and Member of Parl. for Lymington in Hampbhhire,

that was a few days ago eleéted Mayor of the said Borough.

P. 8.P. 0.2.

The Dutchess Dowager of Marlborough was to wait on

the Queen at Windsor a day or two before the Court re-

moved, and continued some hours with her Majesty. D. P.

S.F. W.E. L.E.

We learn from Pifcataqua in New England, by letters

dated Aug. rath, that at Weltbrooke near that place they

had received an express from Boston advising tiem to be

upon their guard, for fear of being surprised by the Indi-

ans, about a 100 of whom had assembled together near Rut-

land, about 40 miles from Bolton, where they had killed

cattle belonging to the English, and done other mitchief.

D. F. 4 Ez.

Yesterday at Mr. Figgs Amphitheatre was fought a deci-

five battle between the said Mr. Figg and Mr. Holmes, the

Trish Heroe: when at the second bout the latter, in defend-

ing his head, received such a desperate wound in his left

arm, as obliged him to yield, without having been able to

give his Adversary one cut. D. F.

Mond. last dy’d in an advanced age at his feat of Upton

near Kineton in Warwiclshire, Sir Rufhout Cullen, Bart

He has left his real cltate about 30001]. per ann. to his Ne-

phew, Apprentice to a Merchant in London; and his per-

fonal estate, being about 20,e00]. to Mr. Bedford, Attor-

ney at law, who was also his Nephew, and liv’d with him.

L. E.

Sund. last, 2 of the L. Castlemain’s fons at Eaton School,

having some words ..... the youngest struck the eldest

with a stick, and broke his arm near the shoulder, which

was fet by a Surgeon at Windsor. DP. E.P. vt WE.

hi

—— The Weekly Register /ays, the eldest had his arm

broke short off, near the shoulder with a great cudgel

This is what he calls, Heightening the Tale, when it has

been too heavily related. He should have added, that the

arm was fet on again at full length by the Surgeon.

Yesterday at 4 in the afternoon, dy’d at her house in

Pall-Mall Court, the Lady Selwyas, Reliét of Sir Gab. Sel-

wyas, a Native of Holland, who was knighted by K. Charles

II. She was a Maid of Honour to Q. Catharine. Z4id. aged

above 80. §. Ff. Selways. P. 16.—— This Lady’s name

was Sylvius, and foe was but 78.—---- The Weekly Register

Says, that our Brethren News Writers not only killed, but

buried this Lady several weeks pait: which is a falle and

[candalous reflection upon some of our Members, who defie

him to name the Authors.

Fripay, O4. 16.

Yesterday Sir Ch. Wager, with several of the L. Commif-

fioners of the Admiralty, went to Woolwich in their barge,

and faw his Majesty’s ship the Namur, a 2d Rate, and the

Princess Caroline, launched at that place. C. P.

Yesterday the R. H. Cha. E. of Tankerville, &c. kiffed

the King’s hand, on his being appointed one of the Gentle-

men of the Bed-Chamber of his Royal Highness the Prince.

D.P. E.P. L.E. 17.

We hear that the R. Rev. Dr. Chandler, L. Bp. of Litch-

field and Coventry, hath kiffed the King’s hand for the Bi-

fhoprick of Durham. D. P.

SaTuR DAY, O4. 17.

Orders are given by the R. H. the E. of Hertford, that

no omer or persons be allowed to ride in their coaches or

on Horseback through the Horse-Guards into St. James’s

Park, except the following, viz. the E. of Essex, Count

Bothmar, Edw. Hughes Esq; Judge Advocate, Mr. Dela-

fay, E. of Godolphin, on Horseback; and the D. of Rich-

mond in a coach, or on Horieback. P. E.P. S.F. WE.

The L. Cha. Cavendish, being going abroad, has re-

signed his Place of Gentleman of the Bed-chamber to his

Royal Highness the Prince. §. F. L. E£.

The R. H. Francis I, Guilford is appointed one of the

Gentlemen of the Bed-chamber to his Royal Mighnels the

Prince: Charles Montagut Esq; Son of the late L. Chief p,

ron Mountague, one of the Auditors to his Royal Highnef

and Ant. Corbire Efqs one of the Decypherers to the Secte.

taries of State, is appointed a Commissioner for the Wine.

licenses. D.P. 4 Ev.

M. Riechenbach, late Secretary for the affairs of the

K. of Prussia at this Court, fet out early on Thursda

morning without the usual presents. Jdid. J

The Rev. Dr. Bland, Dean of Durham, will be pro-

moted to the Bishoprick of Litchfield and Coventry, anq

as we hear, holds his Deanery in commendum. jg.

Tuesday night died in Sion College, Dr. Rich. Roderick

Reét. of S. Michael Baffifhaw. D. 7 SP 2.

Her Majesty, out of her innate piety and goodness, was

graciously pleased to give 4 fcore pounds, for dischargin

all the podr Debtors in the ‘Town Jail of Windsor, the dy

before the Court removed. Ibid. y

They write from Bath, that the Fellows seized there

on suspicion of firing Mr. Packer’s house, were examined

before Mr. Serg. Raby, and Mr. Serg. Eyre, and commit.

ted to Ilverchester goal. W. E.

Mownpay, O@4. 1g.

Her Majesty being flightly indisposed by the returm

of the gout, keeps her chamber by the advice of her Phy-

ficians. C. -

Sat. at the Sessions at the Old Baily, John Williams,

Gent. was try’d for the murder of John Hattings, by

beating and bruifing him with an Unicorn’s Korn, in a

fkittle-ground in Baldwin’s Gardens, in September last

and after a long hearing wasacquitted. Ibid. P. D.F.

We hear, that the R. Rev, Dr. Smalbrooke, L. Bp. of

S. David’s, will be made Bp. of Litchfield and Coventry ;

and the Rev. Dr. Bland, Bp. of S. David’s, who will hold

his Deanery of Durham in Commendum P. Commendam:

Mr. John Ramsden, a relation of L. Lonsdale, is made

one of the Clerks in the Secretary’s Office, under the D,

of Newcaftles; Tho. Broughton, Esq; Lieutenant Gov. of

South-Carolina; and John Migault, Efqg; Groom of the

Removing Wardrobe. bid.

The E. of Moreton has been eleéted one of the 16

Peers for North Britain. D. P.

The Rev. Mr. Lever, Chaplain to the E. of Cardigan is

presented by the D. of Mountague to the Reétory of S.

George in Queen-{quare. D. F.

‘luespay, Of. 20,

Laft night the Sessions ended at the Old Bailey, when

the 7 following Malefaétors received sentence of death, viz.

Jam. Rogers and Hum. Belmoffet, for robbing John Brown

in the street of a great coat, a hat, and 12 shillingss Hugh

Morris, Jam.Bryan, and Rob. John Qn, for robberies on

the Highway; Geo. Bevis, for robbing Sam. Gillam of

watches, rings, and money, to a great value; and Tho,

Rivers, for breaking the house of Mr. Phenix of Burr-street,

Wapping, and stealing thence a great quantity of plate, and

divers other valuable things. D.P. Hen. Bellmoflet, his

wig and 10s. in money. Johnson for several flreet robbe-

ries. Rivers, for robbing Mr. Fenwick. P. Plate to the

value of 2001. Ibid. D. F. His Unkle Mr. Gilham. D. F.

An Infirument is preparing to pass the seals, for restoring

Col. Charteris to the possession of the several estates (by him

forfeited on his late attainder of felony) in Middlesex, Lan

cashire, and Westmoreland. D. P.

Yesterday morn. died at his house in the Old-Baily, Mr.

John Patrick, Weather-glass-maker, of whom Dr. Halley,

in his book of Astronomy, and others of the Royal So-

ciety, allow’d him to be the most ingenious and best of

that profeflion. Among his diversions he used the art of

Ringing, and in that became fo great a proficient, that he

was the first inventor of ringing those long Peals which are

now in ule, of which a book of the art of ringing is now

extant in his name. D P. This paragraph is fa

Sull of rhetorical figures, that I can’t underfiand it.

By a private Letter, Aug.7. from Bermudas we are infor-

med, that Capt. Philip Cockram, of New-York, fell into the

hands of the Spaniards, whe cut him and most of his

men to pieces.

Thursday was held a Court of the Weavers Company,

when a motion was made that their barge might go out

upon the next L. Mayor’s day, as usual; but the fame

was strenuously opposed by certain persons, and a Com-

mittee appointed to wait upon my L. Eleét, and desire

to be excused; which a great number of the Livery hope

will not be granted, because their barge is very fit to 0%

tho’ the contrary is given out to serveaturn. P. ——Jf

it won'tierve, it muff take a turn.

Friday morn. the Wife of Mr. Miles at the Bell in White-

chappel, being disorder’d in her senses, leaped out of 3

window 2 pair of itairs, but received no further damag*

than fpraining one of her legs, and bruifing the fide ot

her face. C.

At the Sessions at the Old Bailey, 8 were burnt in tne

hand, 4 were ordered to be whipt, and between 30 and

40 ordered for Transportation. EP. S F.

This day the R. H. Sir Rob. Walpole, accompanied by.

a great many Persons of distinétion, fet out for his feat 0!

Houghton in Norfolk. a Ey. where he designs to keep open

[Page 3.]

noufe for 2 fortnight. EP. SF. LE.————J myself faw

Sir Rob. go out of Town ina coach and 6, in which were

anly 3 Gentlemen besides himself. The coach was attended

by about 6 persons, some of whem being distinguithed dy /i-

veries, my Brethren may justly call them persons of di-

finftion. But 6 are nota great many. —

Laft night Abraham Stanyan, Esq; his Majesty’s late

Ambassador at the Ottoman Porte, arrived here from

Constantinople. $F. He hath brought with him 6 young

Turks. LE. a:

Laft night the house of Sir Rich. Grosvenor, Bart. at

Millbank, Westminster, was broke open and robbed of

plate, &c. to the value of 3001. by 2 foot soldiers; one

of whom had his leg torn to pieces by a dog. They

are both taken and committed to Newgate. LE.

WEDNESDAY, O@4. 21.

His Majesty has been pleased to present the Rev. Dr.

Peter Allix to the Deanry of Fi, , void by the death of

Dr. John Frankland: and Mr. Dan: Newcome to the

Deanry of Gloucester, void by the resignation of Dr. Al-

ix. C. &c.

ae last, John Fuller, Efg; and Sir If. Shard, Knt.

Sheriffs, attended to take an inquisition on a Writ de ven-

tre infpiciendo, iffluing out of Chancery against Lady

Chaplin, Wid. of Sir John Chaplin, late of ‘Tathwel, in

the County of Lincoln, Bart. deceased, who married the

said Lady in March last, and died of the small-pox 10

weeks after: on which inquisition (made at the instance

of the heirs at law) the said Lady was found to be with

child, and that fhe had about 3 months to go in her

pregnancy. DP. The young Lady was but 16 last July,

and Sir John Chaplin but 19 when he dy’d. DF.

From the Pegasus in Grub-street.

The two following Letters with Veries were read to the

Society, and ordered to be printed.

Jo Mr. Bavius Secretary to the Society of Grubfrreee.

SIR,

| Have frequently been exercised by a rural administrator

B of Justice; have gone through several courses of his

discipline; but being now remov’d beyond the {phere of

his activity, I give the tollowing out-lines of the Gentleman 5

my skill in drawing not enabling me to fill the figure with

proper fhades.

Without his Worsitp’s leave; he’s very proud,

Proof against Reason, positive and loud :

He itill behaves with stable impudence,

And never {werves to Modesty or Sense.

With tottering Diétion and inceffant Brawl,

He aéts the Bully, and confounds the Hall.

Mov’'d by no Spring but Interest and Spight,

What he confirms at Morn he’ll quash at Night.

With well expanded Bellows he assails,

Till with his Lungs his Understanding fails.

Is to be let, and thwarts the plainest Laws,

And prostitutes his Voice to serve the cause.

Long has he made a buftle for the State,

And hop’d a furious Zeal wou’d make him great :

Thinks loyalty, as dirt, when largely caft,

Will, surely, some on’t some where stick at last :

Drinks Bumpers to the Church; yet oft the Prieit

Is subject of his awkward filthy Jett;

Then Isughs alone, whilst others in disdain

Laugh at the Justice ribaldrous and vain.

In sordid Hutt all day he makes decrees

With fapient Air: Tobacco, Bread and Cheese

Promifcuously chews; at night o’ercome

With ropy belch, he takes a bed at home.

gnizance and warrant join their aid,

Make good deficiencies, and help the trade:

certain yearly composition quits

The Clerk; the Justice takes the perquisites.

His Worsnip rides in chaife; but time mutt tell,

ether this vehicle t? a coach may {well ;

windle to more bafe machine, to yield

ore gain in needful labours of the field :

Some fay the latter; but more think he'll ride,

d, rather than retrench, will starve in pride.

STR,

Bout three months ago, I received a Letter by the

itself Was directed to Capt. GuLLIveR, and was in these

ms, Sir, Having a great veneration for all who bear the

Mam: of Guuriver: J take upon me to fend you this, for

fear you should not fee it, with these two lints,

Marke well, what here inclos'd I fends

Or soon expect A fatal End.

Yours DEviBERATOR.

The inclosed, here referr’d to, was

Penny Post, ina Cover directed to me, but the Letter

a Copy of the fol-

To the Author of the Grub-street Fourual.

Vv! LE, dark, and dirty! if thy name and face

Be like thy work, humanity’s disgrace,

Well doit thou wear, adapted to thy task,

The murd’rer’s dagger, and the robber’s-mafk.

Proceed, abuse, and fcaster filth around 5

Yet hope not any Author can be fohud

Will ftoop to grace that Scribler with reply,

Whose wit is slander, and whose jest a lye :

Unless thy ftuff a cudgel may demand ;

But that to weild requires no learned hand :

That job I'll undertake, tho’ no great Clerk,

So write your name, and 1 —— will make my mark.

VINEGAR.

When I first read these verses, I thought the 4 -first of

them, if they had been sense, were very applicable both

to the Writer of them, aud the Writer of the Letter,

whom I took to be one and the same person; and who I

thought had plainly fet bis mark, in the turn of the verse,

the pun at the end, &c. a manner, with which I have had

some reason to be acquainted. And I imagined he might

probably have been employ’d by a Club of unfuccefsful

Poets, who I heard were extremely allérm’d at the publi-

suppose I was concerned as a Book-feller, from the fi-

militude betwixt Capt. L. Guniivers name, and mine.

But having less apprehension of these Gentlemens Dag-

gers, than of their Pens, both their Poetry and Prose be-

ing much more terrible to me than their Persons or

Prowefs, I took no notice of this affair then in a pub

lick manner, hoping e’er this to have discover’d the bot-

tom of it. But being disappointed in that expectation,

and the writing of such threatening Letters being of very

pernicious consequence, and on that account juitly made

very penal; I resolved, for the fake of other persons ra-

ther than for my own, to endeavour to find out the Villain

who wrote this. In order to which, I desire the favour

of your Society to publish in your Fournaé this Letter of

mine, by which JZ bere promise to pay ten guineas to any

person, who shall make a disco-ery of the Writer of the

above-mentioned Letter, fo that be may be prosecuted ac-

cording to Law, by, Sir,

Octob. 22, 1730. Your most humble Servant

L. GiLuiver.

The Daily Post and London Evening of yeferday, have

elected the E. of Moreton in the room of the E. of Sea-

field: Sut the Proclamation in the Gazette fixes the electi-

on upon Nov. 17th.

Dublin, Sept. 29. Laff week the Commencement was beld

at Trinity College, when bis Grace the L. Primate, and

bis Grace the L. Arch-bishop of Dublin, had their Doétors

degrees conferred on thems and bis Excell. the L. Chan-

cellor had the degree of Dr. of Laws conferred on him. At

the [ame time 2 Members of Parl. were complimented with

their Doors degrees; 4 Dodors of Physick, 19 Mafers

of Arts, 3 Batchelors, and 3 Batchelors of the Civil

Law took their degrees. P. DP. The many rob-

beries, which seem to increase rather than diminifo, make

it heartily to be wished, that jome expedient could be

found, of employing poor Artificers; who in this great

decay of trade, and want of change in this Kingdom, are

reduced to great want, and "tis feared are obliged many

of them to take the roads rather than flarve P.

Dublin, Oct. 13. We hear thata Col. and some Offt-

cers, in the service of his Christian Majesty, are arrived

with proper warrants from London, to beat up for Vo-

750, in order to fill up the Irish Regiments in France.

Count Broglio, Ambassador of France to the English Court,

has been folliciting for this order these 2 years past. C.

D P.

FOREIGN NEWS.

Thursday, Of. 15.

Amsterdam, Of. 13. We hear from Milan, that the

new K. of Sardinia is undoubtedly believed there to be

in the interest of the Allies of Seville D.P. E.P.—

Vienna, O&. 4. Astothe Court of Turin, their inclina-

tion seems to be in favour of an exact neutrality, till they

fee how things go next spring. D.F. S.J. WE. LE.

Friday, O4. 16.

Vefterday arrived the Mail due from France, and 3 from

Flanders.

Mo/cow, Sept. 14. N.S. Laft week the Czarina, &c.

return’d hither from Imailow. -—— Several pieces of silver,

copper, and other metals, have been brought hither from

the mines discovered in Siberia in the reign of the Czar

Peter I. The value of this first Assay exceeds cent. per

pat in working the said oar. An Officer dispatch’d

from Derbent has brought advice, that the Sophy has af-

Owing verses, age tee =

uly Co gus of the Baily Fourual of Friday,

sembled all his troops, to face the Ottoman army, being

luntiers in any part of this Kingdom, to the number of

cent. the expence they have been at for these 3 years ¢

Dantzick, Sept. 29. On the 23d the King fet ont

hence for Bialostock, whence he will go to Grodno. C.

Rome, Sept. 30. Card. Cofcia has at length resigned lis

Archbishoprick, without being able to reserve a peniign

out of it. He is allowed to take the air within the diy ;

{liéts of Rome, with a {trict injunétion not to stir out 0:

the Ecclesiastick State. D.P. with a prohibition. D. ¥. ---

The Chev. de S. George, with his 2 Sons, went on mon-

day morn. to Albano. P.. D.P.

Leghorn, Sept. 30. Letters from Corsica advise, that

the Rebels grow bolder and bolder, and have begun to di-

vide among themselves the goods and lands belonging to

the Genoele. PP. os Fame ont

Paris, O&. 21. We have reeeived advice from Rome,

that on the 2d inft. the Pope created 4 Cardinals, viz.

Signor Grimaldi, Archbishop of Deffe, and Nuncio at

Vienna 3 Signor Mafcei, Archbishop of Athens, lately Nun-

cio in France; Signor Aldobrandini, Archbishop of Rhodes,

Nuntio in Spain; and the Abbot Rufpoli, {onto the Prince

of that name, and Sectetary to the Congregation de propa-

ganda fide. C. P. D. P. —The Abbot Fourmont, who

went to Constantinople by the King’s order, returned hi-

ther last week, and brought a great number of Inscriptions

and Antiquities, from the different provinces of Turky,

cation of the Grub-street Journal: in which they might } through which he has travelled. C. P. D. P. Tourmont

D. F.

SaTuRDAY, Of. 17.

Yeferday arrived the Mail from Holland.

Vienna, O&.7. N.S. The Emperor has resolved to aug-

ment his Armies with 50,000 men. 2000 horses are to be

fent to Italy forthwith. C. D. P. D.F.——~ The Count

de Bonneval went from Bofnia to the Porte to be circum-

cifed, on which occasion he changed the name of Ibrahim,

his first Turkish name, to that of Achmet. This operation

had like to have cost the old Rake his life: but however he

is upon recovery; and wh€h that is completed, he is to go

a pilgrimage to Mecca, in execution of a vow he made to

Mahomet during his illness. P. There seems to have

been little occasion oa this meco circumcifion; it being very

likely, that this old Rake had undergone the like operation

before, as BUTLER /ays, not ag Projelyte; but for claps.

Odenjee, O8.15. The 11th being the King's [of Den-

maak] birth-day, \Ir. Herfleb preached an excellent sermon

in his Majesty’s Cabinet, who heard the fame fitting up :

but about ro that night the Physicians were fent for, and

found him fo ill, that he died the 12th about 2 in the

morning, in perfect sense, and with an entire resignation.

Frederick 1V was born O@. 11. 167n1: and has left the

Crown to his eldest Son (now Christian VI) who was born

Nov. 30. 1699. Ibid.

Hamburgh, O&.17. They write from Lunenburg, that

the Prussians have lately seized upon the Frontiers, and ear-

ry’d to Berlin, 20 private Centinels of the Foot-gugrds of

Hanover, who had obtain’d furlows for a few months;

which had caused a great Confternation in the Ble¢torate of

Hanover. Jdid.

From War/aw (the Capital of Po/and) we learn, that

the plague makes terrible ravages on the frontiers of Pedolia

&c. Weekly Regiffer. -'The tev. Mr. Lawrence Ea-

CHARD, for cvhoje authority I have a great veneration, af-

Jures me, that Cracow is the metropolis or Capital of Po-

land. J therefore advise my Brother, to consult bimy before

he inserts in bis Paper any more geographical notes.

fonpay, Od. 19.

Yesterday arrived the Mails due from France asd Holland.

Pot S. Mary, Scpt. 26. N.S. ‘Their Majesties and the

Prince and Princess of Asturias, who arriv’d here the zoth,

continue in perfect health. C.

Grodno, O.%.6. The Dyet began to meet the 2d inft.

Cc. B... &. 7.

Copenhagen, OF. 14. This day the new King, Christian

VI. was proclaimed here. id.

Tuespay, O4. 20.

This day arrived the Mail due from Helland.

Rome, Oct. 7. The Pope having observed, that Cardi-

nal Cofcia was fo generally hated, that no body would

undertake his defence, his Holiness has ordered the advo-

cates Arcangeli, two brothers, and the Cardinal Vicar’s

criminal Judges, to undertake the defence of Cardinal

Cofcia’s cause, that he may be cleared if he be innocent, ~

and punished if guilty. WE.

Vienna, Oct. 14. Yesterday the Pope’s Nuncio, in an

audience of the Emperor, advised his Imperial Majesty, in

the name of his Holiness, to accommodate matters with

Spain. He desired the Emperor at the same time to

withdraw half his troops from Italy; but his Imperial

Majesty desired to be excused. We have received con-

firmation of the defeat of the Turks before Tauris; and

that they loft 40,000 men in that action. The young

Sophi has not only taken Tauris and several other places,

but has also ravaged the Country many leagues abour,

to deprive the Ottoman army of all poflibility of fub-

fitting, which is marching against him, as they fay, to

the number of 200,000 men. Jé/d,

Vienna, Oct. 11. They write from Temeswaer, that

resolved to risque a decisive battle. C. D.P.

[Page 4.]

j they had there a greenish tnow for some days successivaly ;

after whichs a great number of people were taken sick,

a3 d di.d iucderly. ..

WEDNESDAY, O4. 21.

2eme, Oct. 7. Thursd. was published the Lift of the

rew Nuncios, viz. M. Pafficnei to the Court of Vienna,

Kf. Delui to that of France, M. Allemanni to Spain, M.

Spinel: to that of Portugal, M. Valenti Gonzaga to Tuf:-

cany, M. Birdi to the Cantons in Switzlerland, and M.

Ric rdi to Naples. The fame day the Princess Sobiefki

had an audience of his HolinefS, and about an hour’s

private Conference. D P.

Booxs and Pamrncers published in August.

The Redeemer magnified, &c. 4 Serm. by Edw. Wallin.

An historical and philosophical Account of the Baromie-

ter: by Edw. Saul, Z M.

D: morbo Gallico, A Treatise of the French disease,

published by Sir Ulrick Hutton, Knt. and now revised and

recomirended to the press, by Dan. Turner.

A Di.course concerning the ufe and advantages of the

on revelation, &c. by Hen. Stebbing, D. D.

‘The Political State of G. Britain, for July.

The monthly Chronicle, for July.

H itoria Literaria, for July, Numb. III.

Present State of the Republic of Letters, for July.

Present State of Europe, for July.

Magna Britannia & Hibernia Antiqua & Nova, N. 86.

Modern History, by Mr. Salmon, N.73. rit of Vol. XII.

The Gentleman's Tutor for the {mall sword, &c.

Epithalamium on the marriage of L. Brudenel, &c. by

Mr. Samber.

The Statefinan’s Miscellany.

Mr. Whifton’s historical Memoirs of the life of Dr.

Sam. Clarke.

The character of a good Prince: a Serm. by Hen, Fel-

ton, D.D.

‘The South-Sea Kidnapper. Price 6 d.

Catalogus Alumnorumn é Coll. Reg. de Etona in Coll.

Reg. apud Cantab. cooptaiorum ab 1444 ad 1730.

Philosophia Mathematica Newtonianz illuitrate, Tom.

2. 4Geo. Petro Domckio. Pr. 6s.

j _— Dominion the Christian’s joy, a Serm. by Tim.

ollie.

Doing good the best preservative against the fear of the

Civil Power: an Assize Serm. by Geo. Osborne.

The Argument in Christianity as old, &c. confuted in

several Conferencs: by Tho. Burnet, D. D. Conf. I.

An Appendix to a Letter to the Rev. Mr. Norman.

Rupin’s Hiit. of England: by Mr. ‘Tindal, N. 62, 63.

A new Survey of England, >I. and last Part.

Robin Hood: an Opera.

Wat. Tyler and Jack Straw: a dramatic entertainment.

A wimpleat Treatise of practical navigation.

The magazine of Architecture, Perfpective, and Sculp-

ture: by Edw. Oakley. )

The whole cafe in relation to Bridget Reading, an heiress.

The Course of Exchange.

Amsterdam 34 8 Madrid 42 1 half

Ditto at fight 34 5 Bilboa 41 7 8ths

Rotterdam 349 a10 Leghorn 513 8thsa1 4th

Antwerp 35 4 Genoa 54 1 4th

Hamburgh 33 4 } Venice 48 7 8ths

Parisat fight 32 3 8ths Lisbon 5 s. 6d.

Bourdeaux at fight3z1 4th | Porto 5s. 5d.

Cadiz 42 1 half a 3 8ths Dublin 10 34

Prices of Goods at Bear Key.

per Quarter

Wheat ——22 to 28

' Rye —— 16 to 20

Barley — 18 to 22

per Quarter

Hog Peas —— 12 to 16

Boiling Peas— 22 to 24

Pale Malt —— 22 to 28

Oats. —- 12 to 15 Brown Malte—z2 to 24

Horse Beans 19 to 26 Tares —— 20 to 22

Hops 1729 — 26s. to 39s. per Hundred.

Hops 1730 — 39s. to 56s. per Hundred.

Rape Seed 10]. to 11]. 10s. per Laft.

Coals 24s. to 28 s. per Chaldron.

On Tuesday Stocks were,

South Sea 103 1 half, South Sea Annuity 108 3 qrs.

Bank 142 1 8th. India 188 3 qrs. Three per Cent. An-

nuity 97 Seta Royal Exchange Assurance 92 3 qrs.

London Assurance 12 5 8ths. York Buildings 32. South

Sea Bonds 51. 14s. Premium. India ditto 51.16. ditto.

Million Bank 109. Bank Circulation 51. 2s. 6d. per

Cent. Premium. Benefits 1710 9 1 qr. Years Purchase.

Nevis and S. Christopher’s Debent. 5 per Cent. Discount.

_EnglifhCopper 31. 12s.6d. Welth ditto 31. 1s.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

Blythe-honfe, Hammer{mith.

W oereas A LATIN GRAMMAR (ptice 25.) published by

Mr. Gray, and pretended to be a collection tron teveral very

learned masters; is Nothing e/fe than my New Scheme much defae'd :

fo ill printed too, that there are, to 84 pages ct the book, four

large pages of Addenda, and one page ot only some of the Errata

in a small letter. This is to give novice, that (to prevent the troubie,

chose geutlemen, who teach my Grammar, must have from this poor

Expediet:t) 1 have given orders to Adr. Noon of Cheapside, to fell my

Grammare tox the use of Schvols (price 1 s.) separate from the Criti-

cal Appendix and Notes (which raile it to 3 s- 6 d- and with the Fron-

tifpiece, to 4.8-) til a New Edition of it can be printed for their

7? SOLOMON Lowe.

Ac the same place may be had Mr, Lome’s Rudiments (more com-

prehensive than Lily's; or the Westminster Grammar) either in @

table, or ov one fice ot a theet ot Paper (price 6 d.) of im od?avo, with

initiacory systems of Rhetoric and Profedy (price 9d) And, on the

{ume plan, in the fame form, his italian Rudiments: as alio his Greek

and French Grammars, his Vocabulary, Sententia pueriles, English

Examples, Greek Chara@lers, and Critiques on Lily, Busby, Prat,

Friend, Boyer, Altieri, &c. with Aw Essay on Education, proposing

A Methog of instructon, by which The grounds of any language may

be learn'd ina Few Hows, to as to fread ao authr, and write in-

tcliigibly.

BOOKS lately Printed and Sold by B. Mote, at the Middle Temple

Gate, Fleet-street,

I. HLE Mathematical Principles of Natural vi a ah By Sir

Isaac Wewrox. Translated into English by ANDREW

Morre. To which are added») The Laws of the Mvon’s Motion

according to Gravity. By Joun Macnuy, Projeflor of Astronomy

at Gresham College, and Secretary to the Royal Socie y. In two Vo-

lumes.

ll. Sir RicHanny Baxer’s Chronicle of the Kings and Queers

of this Realm, continued co the End of the Reign of his late Ma-

jesty King George I. By an Impartial Hand. Folio.

III. Sylva: Or a Discourse of Fore Trees. By JouHx EVELYN

Esq; F.R.S. To which are adicd, his Terra, Pomona, and all his

sther Treatises upon Gardening.

1V. A Sutvey of ‘he Ancient Husbandry and Gardening, Colle&ed

trom Cato, Varro, Columella, Virgil, and others the most eminent

Writers amongst the Greeks and Romans, By R. BRADLEY, Pio-

feflux of Botany in the University of Cambridge, and F.R, S.

V. The Works of Ben Johnson. Confilting of all his Plays, Po-

ems and other Pieces. In Six Volumes.

VI. A Treatise of the Mechanical Powers: Wherein the Laws of

Motion, and the Properties of those Powers are expiained and de-

monftrated in an easy and jamiliar Method. Being the Substance of

certain Lectures read at the Geometry Leture a: Gresham College.

By ANEREW MoTTE.

ow publif;ed,

The New Edition; in 17 Vols. in Folio, of

FOEDERA, ConvExviones, Liren@, & cujufque Generis

Acta Pustica, imerReces AnGLia£,é& alios quoivis Impera-

tores, Reges, Pontifices, Principes, vel Communitaces, ab ineunte Seculo

Duodecimo, viz. ab Anno 1101, ad noftra ufque Tempora, Habita

aut Traétata; Ex Autographis, infra Sectetiores Archivorum Re-

giorum Thefaurarias, per mulca facula reconditis, hdelicer Exfcripte.

In Lucem miffa de Mandao nupere Regings Accurante THOMA

RYMER, ejufdem Serenifimz Regine Historiagrapho. Editio fe-

cunda, ad Orviginales Charcas in Turri Lon inenii denuo summa

tide Collata & Emendata, Studio GEoxgii Hotmes. Impenfis

Jacobo Tonfon.

The Gefi WateR in the Woarn,

So called by those who have experienced it to

or any Iiching Humours. Itcx;

T hath been taken inwardly for the Kixe’s-Evin, 1]

to cure fore Eyes, or any o:her Sore, Uicers

preserved several trom having their Limbs

means have tailed.

The Price om the Botthe, One Shilling and Six Pence,

It is co be fold at Mr. Gomdge’s, at the Castle in Westminster- Hail.

Mr. Radferd’s Toy: Shops atthe Rote and Crown over-againg Sr, Cle.

men’s Church-Yard in the Strand, near Arundel-Streer End, a

at Mrs. Raw’s at the Nerih-Entcance of ,the Royal- Exchange Overs

against Bartholomew-Lane. pleas

« Ic is good

> of Fiftula’s; it bas

cut of, when al! other

This Day is published,

T RUE CHRISTIANITY, from the first ipeaking of Chi

dren, until they come to the Holy Communion. I, Lessons and

Prayers fitted to the Undeistanding ot little Children. II. The lai

Substance of the Church Catechism, and Prayers, and the weakef at

riper Years. {II, An Exposition of the Church Catechism =e

plain to vulgar Capacities; and Prayers taken out of the Common

Prayer and explained. 1V. A plain Expotition of the Orders at

Conhrmation and the Holy Communion: Also a Discourse of Con-

firmation: shewing the Divine Insticution of it, and the Honour

due ~ he By THo. CoLeBATCH, a Presbyier of the Church of

ng ana.

Prisced for Lawton Gilliver at Homer's Head in Fleet-street,

Where may be had, just Published,

An APPEAL to the genuine Records and Testimoni

and Jewish Writers, the Truth of the Christian Religi

miuve Doérines,

ders of

es of Heathen

On and its pri.

This Day is Hubdlify’s,

The OCCASIONAL WRITER, N° I.

S pi ate Lig —, and Pamphiet-Shops of London and

Where may be had the ad Edition of Numb. I.

N B. These Occaitioral Writers having been pyrated, and a large

Field of Matter now presenting, the Author intends, in a very little

Time, to exhibit his Lucubrations, (under the Titleot, The PATKIOT)

in a Half-sheet Paper, twice a Week.

_Addifon’s Works, 4 Vols. 40

= ga

This Day is published,

The Hasrony of Executions, Numb Vy

[To be continued. }

Eing a compleat Acccount of the five following Malefactors exe-

cuted at Tyburn, O&ob. 7, 1730. viz. Gilberc Laurestce, tor So

comys Thomas Hitchin apd Micuolas Gilbourn, tor the Highway ;

Samuel Armstrong, for Housebreaking, and Singdel Sereer. for Shop-

lifting. Also of John Trombuil, a Schoolmaster and Highwayman,

executed at Kingston in Surry, August 15, 1730. who ofhciated as a

C.ergymaan to three who suffer’d at the fame piace; with his Ex-

hortauon and Dying Speech; and the Tryal ot William Gordon at

Chelmstord. To which is aided, A fu'l Account of the apprehend

irg John Power, for fending threatning Letters to, ard burning the

House of Mr. Packer, ® Merchant in Bristol; containing Copies of

the said Letters, and the Depositions again him. Printed by R.

Newton, at 8c, John’s Gate, and fold by the Booksellers in Town

and Country. Where may be had the former Numbers.

BOOKS printed for Joun BROTHERTON, at the Bible next the

Fleece Tayern in Cornhill.

Blair’s Sermons, ¢ Vols.

Life of Oliver Cromwel

Gordon’s Geog. Grammar

Boweau Oevre poetigue

Cambden’s Britannia

Burkit on the New Testament

L’Ettrange’s Josephas

Tillotfon’s Warks, 3 Vole. ones

Bacon’s Works, 4 Vols. Pilgrim’s Progress

Lock’s Works, 3 Vol. Tales of the Fairies, 3 Voh

Oldenburgh ot Exchanges English Tutor

Musical Dictionary

Shakelpear's Plays

Congreve’s Works

Garth's Ovid

Puffendori’s Law ot Nawye

Bailey’s DiGionary, fol.

Wood's Institutes, tol.

Carckas’s Rates, fol. Boyer*s Telemachus _

Stevens’s Spanish DiGionary Meige’s State Of Britalg,

With Variety of Gngle Plays and Pamphlets.

Tuk published,

In 2Vols. 8v0e. Price bound 10s.

THIRTY NINE SERMONS by the late Rev. Fobm Cook,

A. M. Rettor of the United Parishes of St. George the Martyr,

and St+ Mary Magdalen in Canterbury, and of Mersham in Kent, and

one of the fix Preachers otf the Cathedral Charch of Canterbury: From

the manuscript Copy, prepared by himself for the Press: (there bein

i.veral Copies of foma of the Sermons abroad in Writing, firsterant

at the Request of the Countels ot Coventry, and other Personsof Di-

ftin&ion.) On the following Heads and Occasionss wx. Of Faith.

Of Happiness. Of coming toChriff. Of Vanity. Of Righteou{ness, Tem-

perance, and Judgment tocome. Cleanne/s miffaken. Of God's Omnis

feience. On Prayer. Of Friendship with God. Of the Enmity of the

Devil. Of Resolutisn in Faith and Pra@ice. Of Proving and Perfe»

veving. The Nature of Cleanness. Naaman’s Cure. Of Vision, Reve.

lation, and Repentance. Of Zeal when commendable. When faulty. The

Crown f Biifs and Glory, The Righteous Man’s Reward. The wicked

Man's Lot, The Blessedness of Monrning. The Blessedness of Meckness

Mercy to the Merciful. Of Purity in Heart. Of holding fafi the

Faith. Godly Fear and Obedience. Of Covetoufness. Of the Sabbath.

Sion preferred. Of Superfition. The Difficulty of Salvation. On St.

Peter's Denial, On the Fifth of November, preached before the Lower

Noufe of Convocation, who requested this Sermon to be priried.

printed by E.C. tor L. Gitniven, at Homer’s Head aganft Ss.

Dunitan’s Church in Fleet-fitreete

This Day is published,

Being a Book of general Uje for Clergymen, Gentlemen and Farmers;

Written by WILLIAM BoHUN of the Middle Temple, E/4i

HE Law of Tyrues, thewing their Nature, Krods, Propers

ties and Incidents, by y.hom, when, and in what mannei pay

able; how and in what Courts to be fued for and recovered, and

what Things, Lands or Persons are charged with, or exempted theres

trom. With the Nature, Incidents and Effects of Customs and Pre

{criptions, real Compositions, Modus Decimanai, Libeis, Sugge{ions

Prohibitions, Consultations, &c. wherein all the Statutes and adjust

Cafes relating to the Subje& are introduced and considered

Printed for WEAVER BICKERTON, at the Lord Bacon’s Head, the

Corner of Palfgrave’s-Head-Court, without Temple-Bar.

Of whom may be had,

Mr. CowErx of Hoxton’s Curiovs and Profitable Gardener; containing the most useful Experiments for improving Land by Grait

and Segd, &c. Also a Description of his great American ALOB,

and other extraordinary EXoTIcKS.

SS LIT

For the Benefit of those Persons who are afflicted with the

DROPSY, siete cl

Elizabeth Knell, who lives next Door to the Baker 2

et in Middle-Street, Cloth-Fair, near Weft-Smithe Field,

TILL continues to perform great Cures in the fad

Distemper, on both Sexes, and all Ages. esti

N.B. An Account may bz had of several Cures af *

Place aforesaid.

LONDON: Printed by A. Moore, for Captain Gulliver, near the Temple, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in.

[Price Two Pence.]

