The Grub-street Journal.

Numb.

Thursday, DECEMBER 3, 1730.

ema eee

The Character of a good LORD

MAYOR by Bishop ATTERBURY.

jut and wife Macisrrate

is a blessing as extensive

3 as the Community’ to

eyeeyere which he belongs: a bless-

BeeerAS) ing, which includes all

ether blessings whatsoever, that relate

to this life; secures to us the possession,

and enhances the value of them all.

He will do nothing that ts beneath

his high station, nor omit any thing which

becomes it He will wot prostitute his

power to mean and undue ends; nor

ftoop to little and low arts of courting

the favour of the People, without doing

them real service. He will stand his

ground against all the attacks that can

be made upon his probity: no man’s

power shall feare him from doing his

duty; no man's importunities shall weary

him; no man’s flattery shall bribe him;

no by-views of his own shall miflead him.

He will know how to prize his advantages, and to relish the honours which

he enjoys, as the teitimonies of publick

esteem, and the rewards of merit. In

short, he will in all respects discharge the

high trust reposed in him, with integrity, wisdom, and courage.

Some Magistrates are contented,

that their Places should adorn them:

and some also there are, who study to

adorn their Places, and to refleét back

again the luftre they receive from thence.

Reputation is the great engine, by which

Those, who are poffefs’d of power, must

make that power serviceable to the ends

and uses of government. The rods and

axes of Princes, and their Deputies, may

awe many into obedience: but the fame

of their goodness, and justice, and other

Virtues, will work on more; will make

men not only obedient, but willing to

obey, and ready to come into every thing

that is done, or design’d, for the publick

advantage, by Those, who (they are fatisfy’d) since rely mean it. An established

character spreads the influence of such

as move in a high sphere, on all around,

and beneath them; it reaches farther,

than their own care and providence, or

that of their inferior officers can possibly

do: it acts for them, when they them-

selves cease to act, and renders their ad-

ministration both prosperous and easy.

Great Places are never well filled but by

great minds: and it is as natural to a

great mind to feek honour by a due discharge of an high trust, as it is to little

men to make leis advantages of it.

A good MacistraTs,who would endear

himself to those whom he governs, mutt

be endu’d with a publick spirit, free from

all narrow selfish views, and diligent in

Promoting the common good of the So-

ciety committed to his care. The well-

~ of That. the chief point which he

‘0 Carry always in his eye, and b

Which he is to ood al] his anak

designs, and actions. To this good end

¢ mutt sacrifice his time, his ease, and

7 Private advantages; and think all

OF them well {pent in obtaining it. He

must be an impartial Distributor of justice

Quel portrait eft ceci ?——~ C’eft le noble Cu assruR;

La terreur de |’ Efpagne, et la joye d’ Angleterre;

Qui donne 4 toute Europe, ou la paix, ou la guerre.

Non non, Je me trompe. --- C’eft le fameux Brasseur,

Les delices du peuple, un veritable Anglois,

Qui gouverne la Ville, et conserve fes loix.

Qui fe montrant nagueres, en moeurs et en {cience,

Poli comme un Horace, i la Cour de la France,

Fut le bon Compagnon de I’ Arbitre des Rois.

a

——w if

OVEVERTLTTUITIIOTISOTDUDUOOOLI UTERORSORD

LZ .Warkam pins.

asire Sud? *

Philosophum non barba facit, non Jaurea vatem?

Ett Eau Es, ef Stites, nobile calcar habens.

Plurimus eft \irLes, qui nunquam prelia tentat;

Niultus Equ Es, qui vix pendulus heret equo.

Emit fi tiiulo:, auro futiragia vendens,

Hunc Egouitem AurRatumM dicere jure potes.

At nofier non talis Ecurs: fed fepius urget

Ver tor celerem contpiciendus equuin.

Pro patria incelebri “ie gerit arma Senatu

Civica: nam patriz militat omnis amans.

Magnos qui meruit, parvos contempfit honores,

Ad fan.am aivendens nobiliore via,

Regalem quacivis hui.ero non fenferit ium,

ArmiceR, elt, pluiquam nomine, Mites, Eques.

Hard is the task to shine in glorious deeds,

Wire Beocas vert before, and Cuitp succeeds.

Parsons alone con such a part futta‘n:

ia mel ’ :

Phan whom, tue inace, the {word, the golden chain

A greater ne'er did grace, nor Shall fo greag again.

without respe& of persons, interests, or

opinions. When right is to be done, he

will nrake no distinétion of {mall or great,

friend er enemy, citizen or stranger; he

will. always countenance right,- and. dif-

countenance wong, whoever be the in-

jurer, or the sufferer.

Courtesy and condescension is another

happy quality, which never fails to make

its ‘Way into the opinion, and into

the very hearts of those who. are under

his iifpeétien. By this he doth, as it

were, lessen the distance between him

the envy which always attends an hi

station; when he is easy of access, affa

tient to hear ;‘when not only his Door,

uthis very countenance [and his Hgart}

is OPEN TO ALL that have any occasion

to approach him.

Bounty mutt be added to heighten hig

character. There is scarce any quality

and other men, and by that. means ng

_ more truly popular than this, or morg

suitable to the publitk station in which

he shines. It includes hospitality to the

better fort, and charity to the re twa

virtues that are never exercised fo grace-

fully and well, as when they accompany

each other. When hospitality degene-

rates into profuseness, andends in madnefg

and folly, it ill deserves the name of vire

tue: but in the. offices of charity there

is no danger of excess.

But of all good qualities that which re-

commends and adorns the MacistRaTs

mott, is his care of religion; which as it is

the most valuable thing in the world, fo it

gives the trueft value to them who pro-

mote the esteem and practice of it, by

their example, authority, influence,

encouragement. This is the MaGisTRATS'@

peculiar province, his most glorious emt

ployment: to give countenanceto piety and

virtue, and to rebuke vice and prophand-

ness; to put the laws of men in execution

against such as trample on the laws of

God; and to proteét religion, and all thag

belongs to it, from the daring insults of

those who fit im the feat of the {corner

Thege never was a time, when the iptere

position of the MaGisTRATE was more ne~

ceffary to secure the honour of religi

and uphold the authority of those greag

principles of it, by which his own autho-

rity is best upheld. For we live in evil

days, when the most important and cans

fe(s’d truths, such as by the wisest and

beit men in all ages have been rey

are by -licentious tongues i

argued ‘against, derided; and these things

not only whisper'd in corners, but 2

claimed upon the house tops; own'd and

publish’d in defiance of the common

{uafion, common reason, and the commog

interest of mankind, and of all rr

both sacred and civil. Libertinism ha

erected its itandard, hath declared was

against religion, and openly lifted men om

its fide and party; a general loofenef& of

principles and manners hath seized on ug

like a pestilence, @ pestilence that walketh

not in davkne/s, but wasteth at noon-days

the contagion of which hath {pread itself

through all ranks and degrees of men

hath in{@@ted both the Campand the Cons

gregation. Who knows what the zeal and

courage of agood Macistrate might do

towards {topping it? Let Phineas fand

up and execute judgment, that fa thig

plague may be frayed.

he*

is

ma

[Page 3.]

LONDON.

Tuesday, Nov. 26.

- Prom Newark upon Trent we are informed, that Mr.

Rob. Spragging, a Deal Merchant there, has had 4 Let-

ters full of threats fent him. One Sam. Drury of the

{aid Town, formerly a Barber, has been taken upon fuipi-

cion.—Yesterday Mr. Bucknall, a Taylor in Black-Fryars,

had a Letter fent him demanding 5 guineas. C.

Yesterday morn. the Master of Sturges’s Coffee-honfe, in

S, Martin’s Court, received an anonyinous. Letter, &c. P.

_--—Mr. Gordon, who keeps Sturgeon’s Coffee-house.

His servant brought the Letter out of the cellar, to his

Matter, who carried it to Justice de Veil, of Leicester-

fields, who fent for the servant, and ordered him to write,

which was judged to be the fame hands upon which he

was committed to Newgate. DP. -—— Mr. Smith,

a Baker, the corner of Hanover-street, having received one,

fet 2 men to watch on tuefd. night, who seized a man

that stopt at the place [mentioned in the Letter] to make

water, who was committed to the Gate-house. Jdid. —

Yesterday an Irishman, formerly Cook at the Ship tavern,

Charing-cross, was taken upon suspicion of fending threat.

ning Letters, and, after a long examination, was com-

mitted to the Gate-houte. P. From? Preston in Lan-

cashire we hear, that Mrs. Bellingham of that Town had

received a Letter, threatning, &c. D P.

The D. ot Bedford has presented the Rev. Mr. Tuff

his domeflick Chaplain, to the Rectory of S. Paul’s Covent garden. D P. We are wellaffured, that the Rev.

Dr. Bullock, Minister of Streatham, will be presented to

the Reétorship of S. Paul’s Covent-garden. C. 27.

The Rectory and Rectorship are, perhaps, two different

preferme: ts.

Yesterday the affair depending between the L. B. of

Ely, and Dr. Bentley was put off till the 2d day of next

Term. P.—— Dr. Bentley ts very much indifpoied. § F.

From Salisbury we have an account of a Letter fent last

week co Alderman Green, demanding 10 guineas, &c. Ibid.

A person now in Newgate for roboing on the highway

has impeached 2 of his accomplices, viz. a woman, who

drefles herself in man’s cloaths, anda young man about

23 years of age: and several people are gone in pursuit

of them into acertain country, where they are gone in

order torob. é/d.

Friday, Nov. 27.

Yesterday was held a Court of L. Mayor, Aldermen, &c.

when a motion was made in the handsome it manner,

¢ That the thanks of the Cuurt be given to Sir RicHarp

¢ Barocas, late L. Mayor, for his diligent, prudent, and

¢ impartial discharge of the teveral duties of that high Office, and his tender regard to the rights, privileges, and

true interest of his Fellow-Citizens, shewn upon all occasions; more especially by giving frequent opportunities of promoting the good and wellfare of this Corporation in Common-Council. Which motion. the Court

* pass’d into a resolution, nemine co.tradicente. C. &c.

About a month ago one Mary Rollo, Daughter of Mr.

Fran. Rollo, of Cock lane, near Shoreditch, who‘e nerves

were fo contraéted with the convulsions in her infancy

(about 14 years since) that her head was drawn down, and

fixed upon her right shoulder, was cut for the fame, in the

presence of several very eminent Practitioners, by Dr. Chi-

felden, her Majesty’s Surgeon, and is now perfectly well,

holding her head upright, without the least pain. One in

the fame condition was cut some time before by another

hand, and died in the operation. C.— This perfor,

1 suppose, was cut over the left shoulder.

Mr. White, of Bond-street, has received a 2d Letter,

dated Nov. 20. C.———— Tho. Beit, Efqs a very wealthy

Brewer at Chatham, did lately receive a threatning Letter,

Fequiring 200 guineas, &c. D P. —— A threatning Letter

Was thrown into the house of Mr. Ward, a rich Mercer

at Warwick, the 22d init. D F.

Our Merchants have received advice from Bermuda,

that since the independant Company of foot has been re-

moved to Providence, which was in Feb. last; the Negroes (who are, at least, 5 to one white person) have assembled themselves in a riotous and tumulcuous manner,

and have poiloned many of the white people, some of

whom are dead, and many more lingering under the

dreadful consequences of poiton. Several of the actors of

this horrid villainy have been convi¢ied and executed the

last summer assizes, &c PP. DF.

Lait night a Gent. was attacked in New Bond street,

Y 3 Street-robbers, one of them held a piitol to his

breatt, while the others rifled him ot his watch, 3 gui-

eas, iome silver, and a silver hilted iword: what was

most remarkable, a watchman, who was at his stand, in

fight, did not come to his ailitance. C.

SATURDAY, Net. 28.

_Thurf. night one John Trumball was committed to

Newgate, On iuipicion of jending a Letter to Mr. Gaudon,

threatning, &c. From Bristol we hear, that 2 persons

Were taken upon mend. lat, on a duipicion of being con-

Cerued with ieveral of thote vile incendiaries, &c. C.

, ’ i t

Titef. last, the Green Garter and Collar, vacant by the

death of the late E. of Finlater and Seafield, was fent

down to Scotland, to*be given, as we hear, to the E. of

Moreton. P.

Yester. morn. died Jam. Metcalf, Esq;&c. Lid.

Thursd. aft the notorious Moll. Freeman, alias Tal-

boy, was brought up to the King’s-Bench, by a Habeas

Corpus, &c. It appeared that fhe was commitied to hard

labour, till the first day of next quarter feflions, as an

idle and disorderly person, by Sir John Gonfon, &c. She

had § counsel, 3 of which pleaded on her behalf, and

made some objections against her commitment, which

were learnedly answered by the counsel for the King. The

L. C. J. Raymond, and the reit of the Judges were of opi-

nion, that the commitment was just and legal, and high-

ly commended the proceeding of the Justices, in punish-

ing such vile women; and poor Moll, to her great mor-

tification, was remanded back again to perform her task

of beating hemp till the next Quarter-feflions, and then

to be farther punished as the Justices shall think fit. —

This creature is supported by several noted Gamesters and

Sharpers about Covent-garden, who usually dress her in a

very fine habit, the better to get acquainted with, and

draw in young cullies, in order to make a prey of them.

And the occasion of her present commitment to Brice-

well, was for picking up a youth of 15 years of age, as he

was running from the play house, and carrying him to a

disorderly house, and causing him to absent from home,

and {pend great {ums of his father’s money, who is a person

of note in the City. Zéid. ‘1’o the no {mall mortification of

the Gametters and Sharpers about Drury-lane, &c by whom

fhe has been {upported, and who have raised liberal con-

tributions amovgit themselves to defray her law and pri-

fon charges: fhe beats hemp one day in velvet, and ano-

ther day in a gown richly trimm’d with silver. D7.

We hear that an order has been transmitted to the L.

Justices of Ireland, for prohibiting any recruits to be railed

in that kingdom for foreign services. D P.

Mr. Colley Cibber, the famous Comedian is made Poet-

Laureate to his Majesty. J4id.

The Rev. Dr. Baker, 1 of the Residentiaries of S. Paul's,

and Rector of S. Michacl’s Cornhill, is presented by the

Dean and Chapter of S. Paul’s, to the Rectory of Barns

in Surrey, worth near 400]. per aun. D P.

On thuriday, as her Majesty was walking in S. James's

Park, a woman, supposed to be diiordered in her senses,

abuied her Majesty very grofly; upon which a entinel

near Rofamond’s Pond, took her into custody; and being

examined, fhe was committed to Lothill- fields Bridewell,

to hard labour. WE. — She ewas, no doubt, diiordered in

her fentes, and might justly have beer feit to Bedlam.

Monpay, Nov. 30.

On night last week the town of Basingstoke in Hamp

shire was aiarm’d upon the apprehension of a man tole-

rably well dress’d, and a woman, upon whom were found

between three and iouricore of anonymous Letters 5; one

directed to his Grace the Duke of Bolton, another to the

Minitter of Bafingitoke, and several others to adjacent

Gentlemen. P.

We hear that last thurfday died at Richmond, Sir Isaac

Townsend, one of the Commissioners of his Majesty’s Na-

vy, and had been in that post about 24:;"rs. DP.

"On friday night iaft Mr. Harbin, a otationer in the

Strand, received an anonymous Letter, requiring him to

leave 100 guineas in the back part of his house the night

following, or his house should be burnt, &c. Jd.

The fame day a second anonymous Letter was received

by Mr. Stokes, a Farmer at Southwel, in Middlesex, which

come in a Letter fent to one Mr. Gilbert, a neighbour,

dated the day before, demanding 15 guineas of Mr. Stokes,

and 10 of Mr. Gilbert. D F.

Tuespay, Dee. t.

Yesterday being St. Andrew's day, came on the annual

election ot the Otticers for the Royal Society, at their house

in Crane-court, when Sir Hans Sloane, Bar. was re-

elected President, Royer Gile, Eq; ‘Treasurer, Mr. John

Machin, Professor of Astronomy at Gresham College, was

re-elected Secretary, and Dr. Cromwell Mortimer (Fellow

of the College of Physicians) Secretary, in the room of

the late Dr. Rutty. ‘The reit of the Council; - An-

drews, Esq; Mr. John Eames, Sir John Evelyn, Bar. Mar-

tin Folkes, Efq3 John Hadley, Efqg; Dr. Edmund Halley,

Dr. Richard Mead, James ‘Theobald, Eig; Members new

elected into the Council; James Bradley, Professor of A-

{tronomy at Oxford, the Hon. Col. George Carpenter,

Mr. George Graham, William Jones, Eiq; Thomas, Earl

of Macclesfield, Mr. Iiaac Rand, Charles Duke of Rich-

mond, Dr. Alexander Stewart, James Weft, Eiq; Afier

the election was over, the Gentlemen had a very elegant

dinner at Pontack’s. P.

WEDNESDAY, Dec. 2.

The King has been pleated to prefént Will. Day D. D.

one of his Majesty’s Chaplains, to the Rectory ot Topes-

field, in Essex, void by the death of Tho. Willet. C.

The Rev. Mr Squire Pain is made Archdeacon of Stow. C.

Yesterday anorn. between 2 and 3, a fire broke gut at

i

consumed, with several out houses. D F.

Mr. Bishop’s, a Wobdllen-draper in Cornhill; which burnt~

that house and another, and damaged the houses on each

fide. P. DP. DF, It began in the kitchen through the

careleffness of some of his servants. Ali the houfhoid jur-

niture and other effects were consumed. C. DF.

La{t monday morning a man went to the house of Mr.

Hyam, at Boreham in Essex, and inquited of the Maid> if

her Master was at home; who said, he was at London:

He then ask’d for some beer, which fhe refused him 3

whereupon he told her, her Maiter should toon have rea-

fon to repent her impudence, for that he would {et fire

to his house; and in less than half an hour after his barn,

itables, hay and corn ftacks were fet on fire, and entirely

The teat of

Ben. Hoare, Eiq; C.

From the Pegasus in Grubfireet.

The honour lately conferred upon one of cur most emi-

nent Members, in giving him the Laure/, was {0 grateful

to all who were present, that they have appointed next

wednesday to consider of some proper way tufhew their great

sense of the honour thereby done to our whole Society.

FOREIGN NEWS.

Tuespay, Dee. 1,

This Day arric’d the Mails from Frarce.

Paris, Dec. 2. We have received {ome advices from Con-

stantinople, importing, that the Grand ~eignor designed to

endeavour to retake the Places conquer’d by the Emperor in

Hungary during the late war; and that tor this end he

would cause to march an army of 150,000 inen, with a

prohibition, on pain of death, tor any Turxidh Woman, or

Girl to follow the army. EP. WE. LE. ——— This

Expedition seems design'd rather against the Hungarian

Ladies than the Gentlemen.

This Day is published,

For the Use ef Schools, and joid by Nic. vicv tt and Co. ever against

Southampton Street in the Strand.

N Omenc'ater Tridinguts, ult atiora rerum Nomina continens,; in

quo, preter Genus & Decilinationem Nominum, ootatur enam

yl.aburum quanutas. Acpoltur Verborum acjeciivotum Sylvulay ub

cum Proverbs mifceilanes ducemtis & duvceim. In Puscorum

inpe uoram grtiam, quicum Launis Gaia coo jungum. Euitio

quarta, Avctus & Emeraauor. Svo. Lonaimnt 173 .

A new Biftory of Eogtand in En bith ane brooch, by Qieflion

uno Aclwer, cxtieGcd trom Mr. KRapt) Theyias. tame. Tuc ame

Kook iv Bngath fenarae,

Semenze & Meti Racevoll. or, the Amusing Inair @u. B ng

4 Colleton cf fine Seyings, fmart Repartees, &. rom che m. ft ap

proved ltalian Authois. Wich an be ypith Drantlan ie ram.

_ Where may ce haa,

DiXionaite ce la Bible par Calm ¢, Newcedie Edition le Supple-

ment a été ranye en fa place. Tome ift and a. geo.

Lis Ocuvies de Fonvencile in ich G1 Gua cw, <o Crois Volumes,

eniichis Ge higu.es, de Vigucies, & de Cuis ue Lampe, graves par

Bet ward Picare.

« « Avaniures de Telemaque 6n 2 Vol. in 4to. enichie de fizures,

fe wi neites, & de Leuies grifes, par afferents b. ns Maircs, avec

jes ootec Historiques.

Aiemvives de la Vie Ce Theodore Agrippa a’ Aubiz: € Ayeul de

Madame de Maintenom, ccs par luy meme, avec ic. \icmeires de

t.edeitc Afamrice Ge ja Tour, lViince de Sedan, ure Restion ce la

Kour ce France par Mr. Pioio, Amballaceur de Ve ile, & 1 Hiiftuite

< Madame de Macy. 2 Vol. 2me. 1735.

Historia Literaria: or av exact ang early Account of the mot

valuable Books publish’d in che teveral Parts of Europe.

Floviferis mt apes in faltbas omnia &bant,

Omnia nos ttidem. Lucret.

Come I. With a compleat alphabecical Index, and No. I, I. Ul,

‘V. V. and VI. fepaiate., Sermons tor divers sexes de I? Ercuve

yainte par Charies Bertheav, Patteur de 'bpiiie Francoife de Lovdrcs,

Seconde Edicion augmentee de deux fe: Moms cans le premies voume

& da ‘Tome tecond cntier. 2 Vals. 8vo.

This Day is published,

Tie Second Edition ( Revised and Corvecied, with lavge Additions by

the Amihor) of

A Comperdovs and Methodical Account of the Principt:s 0. Na-

ty Purofoshys as explatned a.c nuttaccd in the teweral

Courfes ot Exper ments pestorm’d at the Acauemy in Lace Tower- °

street. By BEN) \MIiN WORSTER, A, M.

Procea tor Scepben Avflen, at the Arpel aud Bible in Ste Paui’s

Church-Yard, 8vo. Price ¢ 66d.

Where may be had,

1. A General Sytem oi Hygioftaucks and Hydr ulcks, Philofe-

phical and Pratical, iluitrates and explaine by Fury lane "6A ppet

Plies. In 2 Vols. gto. Picce |e sos,

ae The Works oi the highs Kev. GEOR. E BU! L, LD. ¢ ie

cerning che | OLY TRINILY &c. 2 Vols &vo. Price tos

3. Ihe FEMALLE VEYSICIAN, ¢ italien po @l the bifestes ine

ident co Chat Sex, in Virgins, Wives, and W dows, &. By JouNn

MOW BRAY, M. D. 8vo. Pic § +.

-o

mth: Golden B ll im Nicholas Late, Lombara {t-eer,

COX’s Oryinai, Loettimasble An elisa: Tere

Gure, (bamous throughow Buspe ad the

Plaitacous) chat hath gives fe hb intinite Sa

‘staétion to th fe that have mode le oir,

Io dauy overcomes the mo xt uoded Coughs,

ho’ or sever fu long Manereg, au Pottecry

wes chem ina few Days, as Tooulands can

cibiy. “Tistourd ote am tt neh ip, ard

we only Medicine ot the Ape tor ola Con

tumptons thinks, Cods, Wheehirgs, Ah

mas, Sh rtnelsui Be eath, ang al. other bileg

fes of the b.cat and Lungs, reitonog, chole who are loin of by Phy

ficians, remaining in utter D fpait uocer the Burden ot thei mite

rable Lives. It cannor be vthcertuy co ouvended, aod beh Low bees

(oid upwards ot 32 Years with great S ccctsy:

Prepared and told Whonetele at the Glzen Ball in Pater-noster Row near St Paul's,

Where all Shopkee; ers and others may be :urnished withary Q in.

tity, wih an Allowance co fell avein.

N. B. The above Tinftuve is fold in above 40 Vlaceeabour Tou 9

but, this Paper being Mreighten’d tor Room, 1 muh defes memuouing

them ti.) Gext week.

[Page 4.]

ADVERTISEMENTS.

- "Ko begin exact-y at Six a-Ciock.

- bir.

i HE Lire of MAHOMET.

Ss ae

For the Benefit of Mr. CAREY.

By his Majesty’s Compiny of Comedians,

T the Theatre Royal in Dury Lane, this present Thursday, be-

ing the Thicd Day ot December, will be presented, a Comedy,

cau d

GREEN WICH-PAR K.

With some Additional Sones pit pr to the Charaers.

And several Ertercainments of Singing and Dancing:

Pariculariy, A Disio.ue of Mr. Henry Puiceii’s, by Mr. Carey ard

Miis Raitor.

And a Cantata of Mr. Caiey’s by Miss Raftor.

N. B. Mr. Casey humbly hopes his Frienge wil honour him with

their Presence (as usual) worwithftand ng Befinets bas render’d it un:

possible for him to attcud them teverally with Tidk wu.

This is likewise to give notice of, and to bey jardou tor an un-

avoidable Accident, which has prevented the Pertormance ot the Tra

xedy of Elalt an AG, proposed to be aétes chat Night, but amends

Shaii be mide in Ence tainments bevween the Ads.

Vivant Rex & Regina.

Fuk publishes, -

New MISCELLANY. Containin,, 16 The Judgmenc of Tire-

as. 2. The Queca of May, 3. ‘The Simock-iac'd Boy. 4. On

te Death cf a young Lady. 5. The Priesthood. 6. A Court Bal-

Jad. 7. An Epitaph ona young Geurlemau wh» was a great huner,

8. The Immortal old Maid. 9. he Noricik Gatland. 10. A Let

fon for the Ladies, 11. The Differences betwixt Love and Frienc-

ship 2. (he Enamoured Brother co his Sifter, 13, The Beau.

14. On Coilunel C ---ra 15. The Bacchanalian Sorg. 15. Di.

W -rertcoldr. Che-iic. 7. Dr.Che--ne’s Answer. 8. A Buriefque

on the late L--rd M--r of Y -kin Scripture Stle. 59. The Raboit

Man-micwife. 20. A Song on the Murder of Mr. tlaysby hits Wile.

21. The coy Miftvels. 22. word D ---’s Epicaph on his Sifter, 23.

Oa the A- b--pot ¥--k and his C--n, 24 On che Fitts of No

vember. 25. Au Epitaph on Dr B-r- y, tormerly B-f -F of OF.

s--- Cambridge. 26. Tne jovial Cantab. 27. On his late M---ys

gracious Gut w the Univertxies, 28. On Dr. W.B —», aged 62,

on his Marriage “ith Jane Diver, aged 16. 29. The Perce of Ha-

30. The Controverty becween Mr. Pope and Mr. Theebalcs,

3729. 31+ The Difkerence between the Paprts and iresbycerians de-

termined.

Printed for 4. Moore, 1730.

Ju publisher.

Corzectriow of Voyages, in Four Volumes

C. neatoing,

I, Captain Wittiam Damprer’s VOYAGES round the Worid:

Describing particulary he Coalts and Islands in the Eaftand Weit.

Inases. Tne S uth Sea Co fts ot Chilt, Peru and Mexico. Vhe

Countries of Tonquin, Achin and Malaccae The Cape ot Goo

Hope, New-Holland, ec.

Il. The VOYAGES of LioxeL WAFER: Giving an Account ot

his being left on the Ithmus of America, among ft che Indians, ang

Oi their Treatment of him; with a paidcular Difctipuon o the

Counay, &c. Also The Nacuial Hefto y ot chose Parts. By a Fel-

a ot the Roysl suciety. And Davis’s Expedition to the Golden

ines.

I. A VOYAGE round the World: Containing an Account of

Capt. Damriva’s Expedition into the South Seas tn the Shig Se

George; with his various Adveitures und Engagements, &c. Toge-

they with a Voyage trom the Well Coast of Mexico vo Ealt india.

By W. Fuswety, Mate to Capt. Dampier.

AV. Capt. Cy Lev’s VOYAGE round the Globe.

V. Capt. SHane’s Journey over the Lithmus of Dariens and Ex-

pedition mo the South Seas.

VI. Capt. Woon’s Voyage through the Srreizhts of M igellan.

Vi, Mr. Rossarrs’s Adventures and Suff.tings among the

a fars of che Levene: His Description of the Archipelago--flands,

te

Uiuflcated with Maps and Draughts: Also several Birds, Fithes,

nd Plasts, rot tourd in this Part of ihe World; curioully Bapra-

ven on Cupper- Places.

Printed tor James and Jonx Kyarron, at the Crown in S:.

Paui’s Church Yard.

in Oétavo,

Gut Pudlith’d,

Tra: slated trom the French Or'-

geval wiitcen by the Count of Boulainwiliiers Author of the } re-

fens Seate ot France, and ot the H.jrorical Memoirs (hereto iubjoined.

"Tis come, Compofing ts the Neéler ] art,

Bat coed Tra: slacion is mo cafy Art. Rofcommion.

Princed for W. Hinchliffe, at Dryden’s Head uider the Ruyal-Ex

change.

W' jereas CaileQions tor the Eiftory of che ancient Bociety ot King's

Heil, and St. Atichael’s Howse, witch were uni ed in Trinity Col-

lege in Cambsidce, acd ot chacCollege, trom the Foundation down to

the present wme, have been many Yeurs m iking trom the Paper Of

fice, the Archives in the Treasury of Titnity College, the Regillers

and Officers Bowks; and what hath been communicated by the Mu

manicy of some cf our best Antiqvaties; and the hr ft Part ot the Work

is row well advanced. Ali Persons who can give any accounts of

any thing remarkable relating to those Co.l.ges, orot the considerable

Men who were bred iv them, of ther Original PiGures any where

extsant, of their CharaGers, Actions, Writings, Preferments or Mis-

fortunes, are desired to impart chem ty Line Author

Tuo. Parne, B.D. Feilow of Trinity Coll. Camb.

T St. Paul’s Coffee-house in Sct. Paul’s Church yard, on Wednes

day the gch ot December next, will begin, as usual, a compleat

Course ot the Theory of Physick 5 as aifo a coinpleat Course et the

Pra@ice ot Physick. By W. Graeme, M.D. FL RS. The hours ot

reading ate from Eleven o’ clock in the Forenoun to One. Bur chose

hours thall be chang’d, if others are more agreeable to the majority

Of the Students. An Essay on the Method of acquiring Knowieige

in Physick; wherein is given an Account of thele Courfer, may be

Bad at Mr. Gilliver's, Bookseller in bleetireet, over-again@ St. Dun-

flan’s Church.

Cape

This Day is published,

New SYSTEM ot AniTaMeETick, Tneoricaland Pra&ical,

wherein the Science of Numbers is demconftrated in a Regular

Course trom ts art Principles, thro’ all the Varts and Branches there-

of; either known to the Ancients, or owidg to the Improvements

ot the Moderns, The Pra@ice and Applicativn to the Attairs of Lite

and Commerce being alto fully explained; to as to make the whole

a complete Sysrem of Tueony, tor the Purposes of Meu ot Sci-

ence; and of PRactTicg, for Men ot Business,

By ALEXANDER MALCOM. A mM.

Teacher o; the MATHEMATICKS at Aberdeen.

Printed tor J. Osponneg and T. Lonomawn, in Pacer-Nofter-

Row; F. Fayram, ard E. Symox, at the Kk. yal Exchange.

Where may be had, written by the fame Aathor,

A TREATISE «t Musick, Speculative, bractical and Historical;

Containing an Expl car.on of the Philosophical aud Rational Grcunds

and Principles the eof; the Naure and Orifice of the Scale of Mu-

sick; the whole Art o; writing Noces, auc the general Rule ot Com-

pobtion: Wih a particular Account of the Ancient Musick, aod a

Comparifon thereof with the Mocern.

This Day is published,

Written for the Enzrertatoment of the Kings by Madam de Gomez,

Authoret Le Belle Allembie, whercin isa Description of the Turks

ani Persians,

PERSIAN ANECDOTES; ors Secret Memoirs of the Court of

PERSIA+ Containing the Hikoty of those qwo Diwftrious He-

rues Sopnuy Umael, tiinam’d the Great, and Tor, King of Ormue:

Togeths: with an Acc une of th Rife of Caflelbas, or Persian Sea

Oi Mahometsis, the Dethroning Sulran Bajazet, and Cruelties ot his

Son Selim, and the Ambuiou, Coufpwacy, and Death of Miila,

Queen wf Ormus: Collectea trom a Ma cufeript me the Vatican Library

o” the Commandeurs od Agout and de lv Porte, and the Cenuine Wri

tings of Monficur dela boreft, Ambaifagor oj the Port, @e. ana

Turkish Annais.

Piined for Weaver Bickercon, at Lord Bac n’s Head, without

Temp.c- Bar.

Of nkom may be had,

Dr. WOOD's Anatomical Lectures ot the Heart, and Circulation

of the Blo d, as read before che RoyaiCoilege ao: beyticisnss London.

This Day is published,

the Thira Edition of

HE SRELLING DICTIONARY: Or, a Co''eSion of all the

common Words made ule oi to the Enghth Tongue, carciu iy

compared with the oripinal Languases trom whence they ate acrivca,

and marked as they ge to be p.onounced. by T. Dycnr ime

1s. 6d, Sold ty KR. Waie, at thie Bible aie Sus in Wa wick-Lane.

at Amien Cover.

A.io may be bed ae the fame face,

1. The large ticufe Benes - O10 wit the x Mups ot facted Geo-

ptaphy, aad a biict Cuncordance tor che ms e¢ easy adm cut o1

the Pi.ces theteln coc omained. Ly JeDowname, B, D.

Bound in Cat Leacner i. 6s. per Book

And with M. Scur:’s Cucs at 21. 5s. Ditto

On anne Paper with Cuts 31. 3s Lino

2. A Description ot 300 Aummuls, viz. Beasts, Biras, Fithes, Ser-

pents ans Botects, Wirth a paiucuies Account ft the Whale tifhery.

Excratted our of the bet Auriors, aid acapted .o che Ule of ail Ca-

pacnies, especially to allure Chiwich o> tread. Luftrated with Cop-

per Plates, whereon is cu reull, Ciniaven, every Bealt, Bird, iifh,

Serpens and Infect, defevib’d in the wh le B ok, price 2s. 6d.

3+ mpartiai Churchrrays Ov, @ tam and candid Representaion ct

the Exceliency and Betuy or tie Cauca of england. Togecher

with an carneit and affectionate Advrefs to the Provette.e Dissenters.

By Robert Warren, DD. Pisce 35. 6d.

q A Treatiie of Arcudtedture, vith Remarks and Odfecvations by

thac excellem Malter thereof SEBASTIAN ik CLERC, Kone. ot the

Empire, Dettyner and En, raver ot che Cabmet to tue ite Fieich

King, ataMember o, the Academy of Arts and Sciences. Necessary for young People who would ap ly to that noble Ait. E) graves

on 134 Copper Plates. By Judn sturt. ‘Yranflaied by Mr. Chambeis

Price 195. °

s+ Liadeiman’s Guide, Containing a Lift of all the Scage Coaches

and Cuarrieis; with an Account or ai! the Fairs and Market Tow ne

in ijngla:d. Price 1s.

The best Warre in the Woantp,

So called by those who have experienced it to be fo, for the ItcH

or any Iecheng Humours.

iy hath been .xen inwataiy tor the KixG’s-Evin. Ye is good

to cure fore Eyes, or any over Sores, Uloers, or Fiftula’s; at has

piferved several trom having their Limbs cut off, when all other

means have tailed.

The Price ou the Bottle, One Shilling and Six Pence.

Ic is co be fold ae My. Gomdge’s, at the Cattie in Westminster-Hall;

Mr. Radford's Toy Shops athe Rote and Crown OveT-agaiukt St. Cie-

menes Church Yard in the Strand, near Arundel-Sueet End, and

at Mrs. Raw's atthe Nev. h-Enccance of the Royal Exchange, over-

arunfB artholomew-Lare.

Poe Oryina, Lnedunabdle, Angeucai Fectuaiy,

Being a speedy Cure tor Coughs, Coids, Afthma’s, Prificks, Whee-

zaings, difficult Dreathings, aod shortneis ot Breathe

Preparation, not only tu be had in esteem from the great Skill

oof all medicinal Compositicn, but also from the Choiceness of

its Logredients, every one of tiem contributing, by their particular

Vircues, to Make it the most etfetual Medicine in the whole Ke-

publick of Physick, It daly overcomes ihe most g:oundec Coughs,

tho’ ot never fo Jong fancing, and perfect’'y cures them in a very

lictle Time 5 it’s found to be the molt fure Helps and the only Me-

dicine 19 the World, tor old Consumptions, Pdficks, Colds, Whee-

zirgs, Afthma’s, thortness of Breath, and all orher Diseases ot the

Breast and Lungs, reftosing those chat are lertof by Vhyficians, re

maining im utter Despair under the Burthen of cheiy miferavle Lives.

It difolves congealed Phiegm in che Thorax 3 wkes away the nck-

ling ta the Aipera Arcerea; heals Kawness and Soveness ot the

Lungs, Breast and Scomach, causing ealy ExpeQ@oration, cures vohe-

menr Catirrhs, Diftdlation of Rheum, and all Fluxes «f tlomours.

falling upon any of the Nobile Paris. It gives iminediare Reliet as

soon as taken, tn che feverett of Coughing, and fo pertcétly trees the

Patient at once.

1: isco be had at Mr. Parker's, at his House in Salisbury-Coure

and if requesteds will be brought co any Person by the Hawker who

tells his Penny Poff. ’Tis also fold ac Mr. R botham’s Toy-thop,

next the G id Iron, Whitechappel Bars; a.d at Mi. Neal’s Toy-

thop, over-against she Whi e Hare tun, in me Borough ot Southwark”

Ac One Shilling @ Por, with Directions.

ON See SE EE 8 eee ~ oem meee

This Day is publihes,

N°. IV. Of the General History of Paintiye

in Quarto,

By S. PALMER, Printer.

Printed for and Sold by the Author at his Priytj

in Bartholomew Close: As also by L. Gilliver it Home

Head against Se Duattan s Church, Flcet-ttree > and Suid

by J. Koberts in Watwick-Lane. 7

Where may be had Numb F. II. and IIL.

This Number contains (amone other Things) Memoirs o

Learned Frosen, Prizter at Basi; ot Jovocus ue tl

Ascensius, atlyons Likewise an Account of the firff Prag.

ing at Consranrinorze and Saronxica above og years

firees as allo the Hfiory of Porxcroy Won Rs, Core,

N. B. Numb. V and VI concludes the firf? Volume, and

makes an entire 4 ork, Tine Second Volumes o; a diffe.

rent nature, containing the Practical Art of. Piintizg

and will be put to Press when the firg Volume

finish’d; which will be as {oon as potf ble,

Dr. GODEKE Y's General Curdiai,

So universally arproved of for the Chol:ck, and all manner of,

Pains in tie Bowels, Miuxes, Fevers, Small-Pox, Meath

Rhesmatiims, and Keftlefinels in Men, Wimen, and C ilde

rw and particularly for several A lmeits cident to Ciild.

ms women, and Relief of young Children in breeding thei

S fold in most Cities, Boroughs

and = Market-Towns thiouehoue

Great-Britain and Lreland, and in mog

publik Streets in London; removd

from Hunidon to Bioxboin in Herttord.

fh re: And sor the Conveniency or fup-

Plying all those parts, there are elias

bliihd by me BENJAMIN

GODFREY theft following Whcle-

sale Warehouses, viz- a

John Weitlake’s in Queen-street, Biifols

Wlliam Fu ly’s, Duttiller, ar coe Blick Prince, in the

Market-Plic-, in the City of Norwich.

Peter Leadb-atc rg, Liitiler, ia Weit C hefter

Mr. Burron’s, Bookseller, on the Bridge atc Newcastle

upon Tyne 5 ;

Mr. Brooke’s, Distiller, on the Biind-key, Dublin,

As +ifo at ms Original Warehouse, facing Angel-Alley, in,

Bishopf-gate Street, without Bishopsgate, London

Any reputabie Shop-keeper in any City, Borough, or

Market-Town, where this Medicine s not already fol’, may

be supply’d at amy of the said Warc-houses with good Allowance.

N. B. The Pulick are desired to take Nor'ce, (to prevent

being imiposed on) that there is an ill minded Person who

counterfe:ts the {gid Medicine, and puts the Title of God

frey’s Cardial on the top of the Bottles, and in his bills iVen

wit the Bottles, he culls it 7/e GENERAL Cor

DIAT, anddoes not put the Person's Name w'o prepues

its but as this Countcifiic Maker is nov found out by his

own Confefion, he and his Sellers will be profecet. das the

Law dtreéts,

ONE of the onfiir Sellers of the sham Mccicine

without the Miker’s Name who prep1 es if, iS 9t a Silver

Sm ti’s new (ombard Street, anothe: is ata Choch monger’s

cing Devonthive Seuare In Pithopfzate Street. but to

event the Buyers trom being iinpos’d on, [have pot my

‘hiiftiar Name on the Top of each Bottle, as in the

Margin, wiiici is prepared

Be me Benjamin Godfrey, M.D,

Tie price of cach Botele is éd.

The Celestiai Anodyne Tinfluve: Or, The Gieat Pine

Ea 71.0" Mediciie,

Fanv’vd atid approv’d of for its won:

} de. ful and never-failing Sveceis, m

wiving imrediate Lafe and Relict in all

manner of Pains, either inward or outward, and is the moit certain Remedy in

ne World for a fure and fp aly Cure

ot the Cholick, and expiling Woamb

Gripes and Pains in the stomach, the

Pleurify, flitches or pais in the fide bici, loins, or any

other parts Rhewmatck A:lments, which confe prin and

dolor. Ie hath given ease to a Miacle, when all ether Kee

medics have taiP’d; In the Gravel and Stone in the Kid.

neys, it gives cafe forchwih, and brines them away to Ade

niration, Ic 2lfo facilitatss and caus a speedy Delivery

in Child-birth. ’Tis no Quack triting thing to allure Oe

World with, but a rat and welleoxperienc.d M di-ine, noe

o€ting by Stupitaction (as Opites) bur by a tr: nly, bale

famick, and fabtile Nature, pacitving the most icver-

rerrible rock.ne pains, and carrks off the Canfe, not by

purgnz, but by Tranfpi tion, by Urine, or breaking Wind.

No Family ovebt to be without it; and vid ourwraty if

curcs Swilling:, Aches, Pans, Numbncfs or Weiknils ot

the Joints; ’us excelicnt for Cr*mps, ani all omer q xed

Infrmtics. cff_€ting Woncers in Agues, Poy rs, sina

pox, Xe.

It is sold only by Mr. PARKER, Priv’ at his

er, af } 's

° a? |

House in Sclisbury-Court, or by such peifens 38 he hall

de pute, at Fighteen-venc: a Bottle, with printal Dirsetonss

Kd, if recnefted, will be brought to any person, by Gi

Howke ‘0 fe"s his Penny Post.

Note, Tis fo ‘d as above, to prevent Counterfeits.

LONDON: Printed by A. Moore, for Captain Gulliver, near the Temple, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in: As also at the Rainbow Coffee-House in Cornhill, and John’s Coffee-House in Sheer-Lane, near Temple-Bar.

[Price Two Pence.|

