The Grub-street Journal.

Thursday, OCTOBER 13, 1730.

Numb. 41.

- eae RR ane

baie w— Ridiculum acri

Fortius & melius magnas plerumque fecat res.

Hor. Sat. IL. 10.

Of. 8, 1730.

% Mr. Bavius, Secretary to the Grubaan Society.

SIR,

OUR ready compliance with my request

that you would publish my Essay towards a criticiim on Hudisras, makes

me venture to proceed in that design,

without any farther apology. The Authors of the two great Epick poems had

a much higher design than barely to

lease or amuse their readers. Under a great variety of

F ntifal and entertaining fictions, delivered in the most

ble manner, were contained Morals of the greatest

political ufe to their respective countries. Homer lived at

a time, when the several States of Greece were in dan-

ger of being swallowed up by an Afiatick Monarch. At

such a time nothing could be of greater ufe, than to shew

the dangers, which would attend a disagreement among

themselves; and to. inculcate the advantages, which would

arise from a firm and mutual agreement. In order to

this, he represents a great number of petty Grecian

princes engaged in a long and tedious war with a great

and powerful Afiatick king. A quarrel arises betwixt

Achilles, one of these princes, and Agamemnon, their Ge-

neral. The pernicious consequences of this quarrel are

ill success in war, the lofs of many brave men, and at

hit of the most intimate friend of Achilles: and the Ge-

neral himself is forced to submit to fue for peace with

his Antagonist. After they are reconciled, the affairs of

the Grecians take a quite different turn; and the de-

firuction of Troy appears in the fall of Heétor.

Virgil, on the other fide, lived at a time, when the

form of government in his country was jult changed, and

pak all probability of being retrieved. His business there-

fore was to endeavour to make the people easy under a

prince, who endeavoured to make them happy; and a-

gaint whom there could be no objection, but the man-

ner in which he had obtained his sovereignty. He re-

presents a great Nation {subverted, and a voluntary fub-

mission of the people to be govern’d by a new prince:

from whom Augulitus was fond of being thought to

be descended, as the Roman people were from the Tro-

jans. He draws the charaéter of this prince just, pious,

wife and warlike; makes his people love him; and after

many dificulties, shews him victorious over all his

enemies.

Our Author lived in an age, when Hypocrify and a pre-

tended Zeal for Religion and Liberty, had subverted the

Laws and Worship of his Country, and had thrown all

nto Anarchy and Coniufion. At fich a time nothing

could be more useful, than to pull off this mask, and ren-

der the persons concealed under it contemptible. This

he chose to do, not by a serious and grave admonition;

but by exposing them to ridicule, which is commonly the

most fuccefsful method of overthrowing any {et of opinions

@r actions.

En order to this he makes the Knight, or chief Hero

of his poem to be of that teét, which had begun and had

Principal share in these unhappy disturbances 5

For his Re/igion,

Twas Presbyterian true blue 3

For he was of that ftubborn crew

Of Errant Saints, whom all men grant

To be the true Church Militant.

Such as do build their Faith upon

The holy text of Pike and Gun;

Decide all controversy by

Infalhible Artillery;

And prove their doétrine orthodox,

By Apottolick blows and knecks.

ll fre, and {word, and deiolation,

A godly-thorough-Reformation;

lich always muit be carried on,

And still be ‘doing, never done:

As if Religion were intended

For nothing elie but to be mended,

He adorns this Knight with a Squire, of another fect,

which had the next share in the dreadful confufions of

those times;

His knowledge was not far behind

The Knight’s, but of another kind:

And he another way come by’t;

Some call it Gifts, and some New-Light.

A lib’ral Art, that costs no pains

Of study, industry, or brains,

*Tis a dark-lanthorn of the Spirit,

Which none fee by but those that bear it:

A light that falls down from on high,

For {piritwal trades to cozen by.

The first Canto of the first part is taken up almost wholly

in describing the Persons and Parts of these two worthy

Adventurers. The Knight is represented under the com-

plex character of a Juiftice of Peace and aColonel. And

here our Author takes occasion to raise a doubt, which was

greatest, his wit or his Valour: and concludes, that

The diff’rence was fo fall, his Brain

Outweigh’d his Rage but half a Grain.

This he observes, some mistook for a sign that he was a

Foo/;

But they’re mistaken very much,

*Tis plain enough he was no such:

We grant, altho’ he had much wig,

H’ was very thie of using it;

As being loth to wear it out,

And therefore bore it not about 3

Unleis on Holy Days, or fo,

As inen their best Apparel do.

With regard to his learning; he is represented as a fmat-

terer in Logick, Rhetorick, Languages, Mithematicks, Phi-

lolophy, Metaphysicks, and School Divinity. His Logick,

as in other {matterers in that science, consisted in a fa-

culty of disputing on all questions, and on either fide

of them;

On either fide he would dispute,

Coniute, change hands, and itill confute 3

He'd undertake to prove by force

Of Argument, a Man’s no Horse 3

He’d prove a Buzzard is no Fowl,

And that a Lord may be an Ow/;

A Ca/f an Alderman, a Gooje a Fufpice,

And Rooks Committee-men and Trustees.

His knowledge in Rhetorick was only technical g

And when he happen’d to break off

I'th’ middle of his speech or cough,

H’ had hard words ready to flow why,

And tell what Rules he did it by.

Elfe when with greatest art he {poke

You'd think he talk’d like other folk;

For all a Rhetorician’s Rules,

Teach nothing but to naine his tools.

His skill in Languages was just enough to fpoll his Mother

tongue, by balderdashing it with feraps of Greek and La-

tin; and give him an ability of adding new words ot

his own invention:

For he could coin or counterfeit

New words, with little or no wit.

His learning in Mathematicks, Philosophy, School-Divinity

and Metaphysicks, was of a piece with the reli: it con

filted chicfly in delivering himtelf

In proper Terms, such as nen {matter

When they throw out, and mifs the matter.

His person was no less extraordinary than his parts His

face was adorn’d with a tawny beard, which he had vow’d

not to cut till Monarchy received its downfal: His

back was | unch’d out like a burthen > and balanced with a

Paunch of the same bul}. ‘This fine person was cloathed

with a duff Doublet, and Breeches of ruzged woollen. His

Hvje served him tor a cup-board, in which he kept his pro- |

vision. His Basket-hilted sword served him not only to

od } ° ] - > ie | 1, o } . } },! ? +

fisht with, but allo to eat broth: the blauc of

His Holfters ferv’d to receive such meat, as would over fill

in your paper; io I shall conclude tor the present,

one of their weckly mectings, by ax unknown band.

articles has already been printed in the philosophical tran

actions, and my friend is a man of figure; many may

Had eat into itself, for lack

Of some-body to hew and hack.

The peaceful {cabbard, where it dwelt,

The rancor of its edge had felt: °

For of the lower end two handful

It had devoured, *twas fo manful:

And fo much scorn’d to lurk in café,

As if it durst not shew its face.

This Sword a Dagger had his Page,

That was but little for his age:

And therefore waited on him fo,

As Dwarfs upon Knights Errant do.

It was a serviceable Dudgeon, [Durgen]

Either for fighting or for drudging.

When it had stabb’d, or broke a head,

It would {crape Trenchers, or chip Bread ¢ .

Toatt cheese or bacon, though it were

To bait a Mouse-trap, *twould not care.

*T would make clean shoes, ard in the earth

Set leeks and onions, and fo forth.

the Hofe, as well as two aged Pistols: which served him

for a trap.

These would inveigle rats with th’ {cent,

To forage, when the cocks were bent,

And some times catch them witha {nap,

As cleverly as th’ ablest trap.

I have now finished the description of our Knight $ and, I

suppose, taken up as much room as you can well fpare ms

Your most humble Servant, AZ. F.

The following Memorial was presented to the Society, at

To the Members of the illustrious Society now assembled in

their Garret at the Pega/us in Grab fireet..

GENTLEMEN,

Am inform’d that to be made a member of the Royal

Society, the candidate must lay before that learned bod

some performance of his own, which may be deem’‘d a fuf-

ficient reason for his admittance. It is, I presume, by some

such means one can hope for adinittance tito your Society: I

have, therefore, at the request of a friend of inine, here-

with fent you An abfrad cf an appendix to a /yftem of anas

tomy, &¢. which, I doubt not, will merit a place in your

transactione, and entitle the author to a feat in your af

fembly. —--It is as follows:

‘ Mr. Douglas and a Surgeon of S. Thomas's hospitals

wanting fuccels in extting for the Stone the high way$

the Surgeons of 8. Bartholomew's bespital, who bad re

resolved to do this operation, altered their resolutions

and went on in the old way. Notwithstanding this,

rejumed the bigh ways and, cutting mine with Jucceft,

it came again in vogue. ‘Twice, indeed, I cut the}

ritonseum: but, exclusive of these two instances, 7 loft

no more than o ein flevens which is more than any one

ele, that Ik:ow of, could fay, chap t. I couch’d

a young gentleman, who had no remembrance of ever

having icen. When he first faw, he thought all objects

whatever touch’d his eyes: he knew not the foape of any

thing, nor any one thing from another: he wonder'd that

a large face could be exprefid ina little pi@ure: ands

what he faw, he thought extremely large, chap. 2. —

* I took 33 Stones from W. Haffenden, in the O8th year of

bis age: be is now living at Gravesend, p. 253. ——

1 tovka Stone \© inches round, weighing 11 ounces, from

J. Miles, whois now living at Reading, p. 254. ——

1 invented an operation, in case of a total closure, or

extreme contraction of the pupil. The manner of doing

it is thus: A forall knife or needle, edged on one fides

is thrufi through the tuvica fclerotis; and then fore

wards through the iris, the edge being turned to the

iris s in dravwing it cut a flit is cut, Pp. 255-

This, gentlemen, excepting the pictures of $4 stones,

3 eves, and a knife, is the {um and lubftance of the fix.

penny piece above-mentioned.

It is true, it is little more than 4 4:// of cures perform'ds

and therefore, ought, after the example of Dr. Anodyne, &c. to have been given gratis: but, as one of the

a no eo&

a ee 8% Um

be desirous of seeing it, whe cannot go to the price of

[Page 2.]

it. Whatever, therefore, you may judge, as to entering

it in your Transactions; you will, at least, minute it in your

weekly anecdotes. Hereby you will oblige the public, by

‘. exposing it 2 meilleur marché; and the author, by fending

it into more hands than his treatise might reach. So that,

by your indulgence, he may become more fam’d for the

Operations he has invented: and, though he may not have

made them intelligible to his countrymen, by the account

he has given of the manner of doing them: yet they may

know whither to repair on occasion, with assurance that he

knows how to do them. For, fays he, (p. 344.) ‘1 have

¢ witnesses to what I fay: for, J feorn to uje any falla

* cious way of representing my fucce/s.’

_ ™ When this Memorial had been read hefore the Society,

Dr. Quisus stood up; and quoted a paffaze out of M.

Le Clere’s-History of Physick. «That learned Author hav-

ing cited Virgil’s character of Tepis 5

Tile ut depositi proferret fata farentis,

Scire ty pee herbarum, ufumque medendi'

Maluit, &S mutas agitare inglorius artes. En. L.12.

observes, that if Physick was on the fame foot in the time

of Aineas, as it is at present, it would have been very im-

proper to call it amure art 3 but in those days the Phy-

ficians and Surgeons left their bands and their medicines

to"(peak for them. "The Doétor added farther, that he

hoped the Society would, for the future take cognizance

of such Physicians and Surgeons, as published quack adver-

tisements of their cures, either in books or publick News-

papers 5 and give them a publick rebuke, unless they coul

ove that neither their Haads nor their Medicines could

y any thing in their favour: which he took to be very

far from the cafe of the Gentleman hinted at in this Me-

morial.

Bavius.

LONDON.

W.E. Whitehall Even. Post

L.E. London Even. Post.

L..J. London Journal.

F. Fog’s Journal.

Cr. Craftsman.

Un. Sp. Universal Spefator,

5 Courant.

Post Boy.

D.P. Daily Pof.

D.J. Daily Journal.

S.E. Evening Pof.

S.J. S. Fames's Even. Pof.

In the second page of our last, in the first colursn, This

is a mistake, hould have been put in after the Article re-

lating to Sir Tho. Scaven: tho’ perhaps it is likewise true

in respect of the paragraph which it immediately follows.

Important articles omitted in our last.

Yesterday, as the Workmen were tyling a new house in

Barbican, they laid the tyles upon the gutter-plate, and the

Carpenters negle@ing to put up the quarter’d petition,

the weight of the tyles broke down the plare, but did no

farther damage; only one of the Bricklayers received a

flight wourd in his head. C.1.---- The quarter’d petition

is a term of art omitted by my learned Brother BaiLey. ~—

Yesterday a Bricklayer at work in Bride’s-alley, by S. Bride’s

Church, Fleet street, fell down from the {caffolding, near

2 stories high, and was very dangerously bruised, and there

feewed little hopes of saving his lite. He was presently

carried to S. Bartholomew's Hospital. C. 2. A Journey-

mun Bricklayer, had the misfortune in over-reach-

ing himself upon the feaffold, to fall down, and to pitch

head foremost against the Church-wall; —— he was pre-

fently blooded, and carried, &c. D.P.2. 8. F.3.—-—

On friday night a poor young Woman, crofling the way

in Bloomsbury fell down, when a coach coming by ha-

ftily, one of the horses trod upon her arm, and bruised

her in a violent manner, before the coachman could tee

her; when on her crying out, he immediately stopp’d his

horses, otherwise, it is believed, fhe must have died on

the spot: fhe was taken care on by a neighbouring Sur-

geon, and is likely to do well. C.5. I cannot but

admire the bifforical exaétne/s and copious eloquence of my

Mercurial Brethren, in setting off theje3 important Articles

te fo great advantage: which delivered in a plain and

frert manner had run thus. 1. Some tyles fell down from

a new house in Barbican, and broke a Bricklayer’s head.

2. A Journey-man Bricklayer fell from a {caffold in Bride’s-

alley, and was very dangerously bruised. 3. A poor young

Woman, crofling the way in Bloomsbury, fell down, and

@ coach had almost run over her.

e

Tuurspvay, Of. 8.

Yesterday the 5 Malefaétors, who were capitally con-

victed at the late Sessions in the Old Baily, were executed

at Tyburn, as mentioned in our former. P.—~—W hy then

is it mentioned in this? —— viz. Tho. Hitchin, alias

Polfon, for the my a A Gilb. Lawrence for sodomy,

Kingdel Street for oplifting, Nich. Gilburn for the high-

way, and Sam. Armitrong tor burglary. D. P.

There is an account from Lyi in Norfolk, that a

vessel newly arrived from France, having on board goods

of great value, belonging to their Excel. Hor. Walpole and

Steph. Poyntz, Eqs; had by accident taken fire, fo that

the ship and her lading were entirely destroyed, to the

damage (as "tis said) of 10,0001. Ibid. E.P. 8. F- Hor.

Walpole, Esq; had French carpets, pieces of embroi-

dery, &c. on board, to the value of 7000 1. besides other

rich goods. L. E.

Thursd. morn. Hum. Parsons, Esq; L. Mayor Elect went

to Mr. Birdin’s in Leadenhall-street, and bespoke a fine

fett of Horse-furniture against L. Mayor's day. C.

There was a motion made for the Aldermen to ride on

horse back on the L. Mayor’s day; but on debates thereon

the fame was dropt. §. F. L. E.

The rev. Mr. Chatfield was lately presented to the

Reétory of South-Ease in the County of Sufflex, and Dio-

cefe of Exeter. D. P. W.E. Diocese of Chichester.

L. E.

Yesterday began the Quarter-Sessions for the City of

Westminster, at Westminster-hall, where Sir hn Gon-

fon, the Chairman, gave an incomparable, learned, and

fine Charge, of about 3 quarters of an hour: for which he

received the thanks of al] the Justices present. P. Which

was very learned and elegant, as well as useful and in-

ftructive, being an excellent {ummary of the Crown Law.

D. P. The like charader has been applied to the rev.

Mr. Arru. Beprorp’s Seripture Chronology: which Dr.

WatTkRLAND. commends as a very learned and elaborate

Work 5 and which others fay is mot only very ufetul and

initrutive, Sut likewi/e very: fine and elegant, there being

a great fimilitude of flile.

On tuciday Mr. Woolfion removed himself by a Habeas

Corpus from the King’s-Bench into the Fleet. Ibid. —

It is dijputed, whether this is to be understood figuratively

or literally.

At Newmarket on monday the great stakes of geo

guineas were won by Mr. Panton’s horse, from L. Londf-

dale and L. Gower's mares, and Mr. Gibbs’s horse, one

heatonly. £.P. W.E. L.£&. ‘The Noblemens con-

tribution of 9e0 guineas. S. F.

Sat. last Col. Charteris was taken very dangerousty ill,

and {till continues fo at his house near Hanover-square,

where he is attended by Dr. Pringle, aud other Physi-

ciins. S.J. L. E. —— Had the Col. put on the infal-

lible Anodyne Necklace some time ago, as was generally

défired, this dangerous illness had been prevented.

His Majesty has been pleased to appoint Gilb. Burnet,

Hen. Robinson, Rich. Dowdeswell. ‘Tho. Cockran and

Rich. Somers, Efqs; to be his Commissioners for the re-

ceipt and management of the Revenues of Excile. S.F.

WE. LE.

Fripay, 04.9.

The R. H. Sir Rob. Walpole is gone to spend some

time at his Country-feat, in Norfolk. C. D. P.

Yesterday morn. Sir Rob. Walpole went for Windsor, &c. P.

Wednesday night the Marlborough East-India ship was

unfortunately burnt by some accident at Blackwall. D. P.

Yefierday. C. Yesterday morn. about 11. J. D. Ff.

She had on board 1200 bags of Salt Petre. C. P. D.F.

30 ton of Red-wood, &c. and a fine Elephant, for which

500 1. was offered yesterday. D.‘%. Which roared out

dreadfully when the fames reached. D.P. Ship and car-

goe valued at almost 20,0001. C.

‘Tuesday the barn, hay-ricks, and out-houses belonging

to Will. Huggins, Efg; in Hampshire, were burnt down

to the ground; and the damage is computed at upwards of

10001]. D. F.

Mr. S. Amand, the famous French Riding-master, who

fractured his fkull, and broke 3 ribs, by a fall down a cel-

m4 My Bloomsbury last fund. night, died yesterday morn.

_ We hear Mr. Heydegger, Master of the Opera House

in the Hay-market, having contra¢ted with some extraor-

dinary voices lately arrived from Italy, to perform in the

Italian Operas, designs to open the fame with a fine new

Opera fat. the 24th instant. P. There are grand pre-

parations making at the Opera-house, &¢. and Senefino be-

ing arrived, they will begin to perform as soon as the

Court comes to S. James's. D. ¥. As this revival

of Italian Operas js grateful to some of our Members, who

bope to have the translating of them: fo it is disagreeable

— greater Genius’s who write English Operas them-

selves.

We hear, that the celebrated Steph. Duck, the Threfher,

stands fair to succeed Lawr. Euiden, Efg; as Poet Lau-

reat. Ldid. I wonder at this article, since the bo-

dily /ife of the rev. Mr, Lawr. Euiden, E(qs is at present

in 10 danger.

SaTuRvay, O4. 10.

Her G. the Duchefs of Monmouth continues {0 ill at

her house in Pall-Mail, that her life is despair’d of. P.

Is on the mending band. C. In a fair way of reco-

wry. DZ

4

‘taken upon him. D. F.

Laft night the corpse of Tho Broderick, Esq; whe

lately died in a very advanted age, was interred at Wandf.

worth with great funeral solemnity. C. D.f-

Yesterday, at a Court of Assistants of the worthipful

Company of Brewers, the L. Mayor Eleét was ieeen fi

Master: and the Court came to a resolution, that as on

ny Draymen, with cockades and white aprons, ay his

Lordship is years old, shall walk before the Company upo

my L. Mayor’s day, P. ‘aa

Tuefd. night, a c.rtain noted Cobler in Scotland-yarg

called Lord Alexander, was apprehended for robbing‘

Gentleman he was to light home. The Gent, was dif.

guised in liquor; and his guide inticed him into a Gine

shop the corner of Damnation alley, over-against the Meufe

gate, Charing-cross, and took from him 3 guineas; one

of which he swallowed, {pent another, aud 17s. 6d. wag

The corner of Danination.

alley is certainly avery proper place for a Gin-shop.

The fame night about 10, a Gent. of Bernard’s-Inn was

robb’d of a guinea and ahalf, by 3 street-robbers, in Flowe

= _— Fleet-street :_ 1 held a pistol to his breag

another search’d his pockets, while the 3d kept ag,

— ae pockets, 3¢ Kept a good look

In a P.S. toa Letter from Bristol, dated O84. §. are

these words. ¢ Just now I hear that 5 or 6 Irish Fellows

* are taken up, &c. E.P.' We have since received an

account, that a young man (named Power, fon to an

Attorney in Dublin) was committed: he was discovereg

upon the Key by a girl, who recollecting that fhe had

seen a person throw a letter into the shop, decribed the

said Power exaétly (being very tall) notwithstanding he

often changed his habit. A boy in gaol on the fame ac.

count has declared, that this is the fame man who dejj.

vered one of the letters. Ibid. D. P. S.F. It is

written from Bristol the 7th, that 6 persons had been

apprehended; but that there did not appear fuficient

proof against more than one of them, named Power,

D.F. WE.

Thursday night Matters, of Holbourn-Court,

Gray’s-Inn, Efg; was found upon his bed stabb’d in a most.

dreadful manner in several places, with a penknife he had

in his hand. He was alive last night, but his life was

despaired of. D.P.

The Hanover, Capt. Warren, arrived at Falmouth,

in her passage from Jamaica, Aug. 6. was taken by

Spanish Guarde Costa, who carried her 6 leagues eaft

from Cape Corientes, plunder’d her of part of her cargo,

most of her Cabbin furniture, and the Captains and his

mens ¢loathing, and provisions, and then permitted her

to proceed on her voyage. D.F. 4E£v.

Famaica, Fuly25. At length we find what efeé the

K. of _* Schedulas for restitution to the British Mer-

chants for the loffes sustain’d in these parts, are like to

have. As to the Anne Galley, taken June 12, 1728,

and carried into S. Jago, reititution was ordered to be

made out of the K. of Spain’s cheft: but the answer was,

that there was not 1 single Ryall of plate in the chet

wn yd her, it having been all divided among thole

concerned in the Privateer which took her. From Car-

thagena we find the {ame regard to the like demands there,

particularly for the Ferret, taken May 4, 1729, and car-

ried into S. Martha, and there condemned, confi(cated,

and divided among the Captors, except what was al-

lowed the Governor, &c. for granting Commissions, and

protecting them in their villany. ‘The Spaniards com

tinue to fit out Guarde Costas, to pyrate upon our trade:

which, if met by ships of superior force, are {creened by

their Commissions; but all they can overcome are ad-

judged good prize. W. E.

Monpay, O&4. 12.

Sat. night, at 10, died the R. Rev. Dr. Will. Tat

bot, L. Bishop of Durham: who was consecrated Bishop

of Oxford, Sept. 24, 1699, trarflated to Salisbury, Mar.

19, 1714, and from thence to Durham, in 1721. P.

D. P. Hewas the 71{t Bishop of that Diocese. D. P.

The fame night died Mr. Shepherd of Petworth in

Sussex, Clerk of the peace for that County, of a fever,

at his chambers in Clifford’s-Inn. C. D.P. James Shep

pard, Esq; P. He jucceeded Mr. Moore about 3

weeks ago.

Friday died Tho. Williams, Esq; one of the Grooms

of the removing Wardrobe, a place worth 1301. per

ann. PR.

The fame evening the Corps of Dr. Marshall was in-

terred with great fimeral Solemnity, at the new bury: g

ground in Lamb’s-conduct fields. “C.

Yesterday morn. died Tho. Master, of Holborn-Court, Gray’s-Inn, &c. D.P.

The insurrection at Jersey has been intirely suppressed, &c. Ibid.

Last week the rev. Dr. Geo. Sayer, Chaplain to the late B. of Durham, and Brother to Dr. Exton Sayer was collared to the Arch-deaconry of Durham, &c. Ibid.

Steph. Poyntz, Esq; — is appointed Governor to his R. Highness the Duke. Ibid.

[page 3.]

Tuesday, OF. 13,

The L. Clifford of Chudleigh died lately at his feat

at Cunnington, near Bridgewater. C. Cannington. D. P.

Frid. night, at 7, the Lady Viscountess Middleton was

brought to bed of a fon and heir. Jéid.

Sat. morn. his Excell. the D. of Ripperda fet out for

Harwich. P.

Wedn. at Newmarket the D. of Ancaster’s Che/nut

Filley beat Sir Rob. Fagg’s Che/nut Filley, for 200 gui-

Dbid.

malt week Dr. Cobden, Chap. to the L. B. of London,

was by the Dean and Chapter of S. Paul’s collated to

the Reét. of S. Auftin and S. Faith. D. P.

Sat. about 10, emded the Quarter Sessions for Weft-

minster, where the Grand Jury delivered a Paper signed

by ‘em all, thanking Sir John Gonfon for his most learned

and ingenious Charge, — and desiring him to permit

his said Charge to be printed. D. %.-—— J hope it will

pot be a Charge likewise to my Friend the Bookseller s as

bas some times happened in the like cajes.

Bristol, O&.%. Ina letter on monday to Mr. Packer,

he was told, that he might have prevented all that had

happened ;‘and that he should yet put the money in the

place appointed: if not, if he went into 2e housess they

would burn them all. About the mid-time of last

monday night, they flung some fire-balls on Meff. Teague

and Far’s warehouses, thereby to fire Mr. Clement's dwel-

ling-house adjoining, wherein Mr. Packer and his fifters

have lodged since his house was burnt. In a let-

ter last tuefday, they fay, they would not have Mr. Packer

fancy, that he shall catch them 3 and that if 10,0001. re-

ward is given out, the persons will never be known. ----

Od. 10. Four persons were seized yesterday at Bath, by

our officers, on suspicion, &c. D. P.

Gen. Evans is appointed Governor of Berwick Castle

and Holy Island, in the room of Gen. Sabine. L. E.

At Newcastle upon Tine they have had a very unex-

pected struggle at the election of a Mayor, when Alder-

man Rudfon was chosen, and not Ald. Ridley, whose turn

itwas. did.

WeEpDNEsDAY, OJ4. 14.

Yesterday their Majesties and the R. Family came from

Windsor to Richmond in good health. C. &c.

His Majesty has beeen ‘pleased to promise his most gra-

cious pardon to any one of the persons concerned in setting

fire to Mr. Packer’s house, so as he or they may be appre

hended and convicted; and allio a reward of 100]. to such

person, or to any person or persons making such discovery.

D.P. —- This unintelligible piece of news is cleared up

by my Brother The Daily Journalilt, who gives it us thus,

to any one of the persons that shall discover his Accom-

plice, or Accomplices, concerned in fending the threat-

‘ sing letters to Mr. Packer, and burning his house, &c.

This day the Sessions begins at the Old Baily.

Yesterday John Butler, Efg; fon to James Butler, Esq;

of Warminghurst-Park in Sussex, was married at St. Anne’s

Soho, to Miss Morgan, fifter to Sir Will: Morgan, &c. a

Lady of 12,0001. fortune. P. 25,0001. D. P.

Fram the Pegasus in Grub-street.

Notwithstanding the Caution given by our President

in our last Journal, we have received several Copies of

verles, which play upon the name of SrePHzn Duck.

Among which there is onc, wherein are these 2 lines,

‘ For this one Subject will restore

‘ Your hundred D —~—s, and onE MORE.

Which with the four following seem to refle& upon a

young Gentleman lately deceased; whose Epitaph we gave

the Public in our zgth Journal, promising at the fame

time, on certain conditions, to fay no more of him. This

promise we design religiously to observe; and therefore

could not publish this Copy. However, if that Gentle-

man’s Ghof should happen to appear in Westminster-Hall]

the beginning of the Term, to the terror of his Majesty’s

good Subjects, we shall be obliged to employ some of the

Canning men of our fraternity effectually to /ay him.

Bavius.

a

Edinburgh, Of. 5. Wedn. last the H. Mr. Tho. Lyon,

rother to the R.

mously ele&ted Provoit of the ancient Burgh of Kinghorn.

“—~ Oct. 6. This day came on the elections of the Ma-

gitrates of this City, when Patrick Lindfay, E{qs was re-

slefted Provost, Tho. Dick, Alex. Wilson, Rob. Black-

Wood, and

born, Dean of Guild, and Alex. Maitland ‘Treasurer.

C. P. D. 7:

the E. of Strathmore, was unani- |

FOREIGN NEWS.

Truursvay, O4.8.

deaf O7. 4. Extract of a private letter from Dref-

Sept. 27. Qur last letters from Berlin did not leave

things there in fo good a situation as we could with;

but it was not doubted, the prudence of the Queen

would soon restore all. Mean time, the Guards were

placed in every corner of the City, who had an eye upon

all that patied 5 and if they faw but 5 or 6 of the Burgh-

ers talking together, they desired them to difperie, pur-

fuant to their orders from above. P.

We are informed, that the King’s refofing to fend the

6000 Saxons, with which he was to have turnished the

Emperor, when they were earnestly demanded by his Im-

perial Majesty, has not a little contributed to the mif-

understanding that at present reigns betweer the 2 Courts.

Ibid.

Vienna, Sept. 23. Extraét of a private letter. We are

now very well fatished, that the expedition is suspended

in Spain, by the Interposition of the Pope, and the Re-

monftrances of the Card. de Fleury; and orders are {ent

to Milan, Naples and Sicily, to suspend all motions and

preparations. Mean while, it is discotrfed among the

Imperial Ministers, that the introduction of Don Carlos

into Italy might have the consent of this Court, provi-

ved, 1. That that Prince do not reside in any place of

residence of the reigning Princes. 2. That his retinue do

not exceed 40@ Spaniards. 3. That the rest of his troops

remain in garrison at Portolongone. 4. That 5,000,000

of florins be paid to his Imp. Majesty, towards the reim-

bursement of his expences. §. That all other differences

be adjust in a Congress, within the {pace of 3 months.

bid.

Paris, O&.6. A woman living near the Place Mau-

bert, has been delivered of a child with 2 faces, in the

same manner as Janus is described by the Ancients. D. P.

----—-A corref/pondent of Mr, Foc’s at Paris, tells him,

‘ That the superstitions will have it, that it is an emblem

‘of an umiversal peace. J /uppo?, because Janus was

effeemed the God of peace. The Craftsman intimates,

that it is a typical emblem of the French nation. Per-

haps it represents a Prime Minister ix his Prelatical and

Political capacities.

Fripay, O4. 9.

Paris, Of. 9. M. Sartine, the Intendant of Catalo-

nia, has signified to the persons belonging to the tran{ports,

that if they would pass the winter there, they should be

paid half freight; but if they thought it more conveni-

ent to fail home, they should not touch a fous of what

was duc to them, "till they returned the next {pring. P.

When the Courier carried the account of the K. of Sar-

dinia’s abdication to Rome, the Pope seemed surprized,

and said, * What will the world fay, when they hear this

‘ news? Here is a sovereign Prince lays down his Govern-

‘ ment at 66, and Ibegin mine at 79, — - Having defi-

red one of his intimate Friends to tell him what the World

thought of his Government, who answered, that they

compared it to a Mafhroom that would lat but a day;

‘he reply’d, ‘I doaflure you, that it shall be like winter

‘ fruit, that will keep a long time. Jdid.

The Irith Officers quartered at Dunkirk are removed

to other garrisons; for what reason we know not, un-

less it be for fear of their corre/ponuing with their friends

in England, in relation to the itate of that Port. Ldid.

Yesterday arrtved the Mail due from F rance.

Paris, O4.14. N.S. The Superiors of the College of

Barbe, to the number of 8, having refused to accept the

Formulary and the Constitution Uxigenitus; the Lieut.

Gen. de Police went thither the 7th, and turned them

all out, with 10 Under-Masters, and put other Ecclefi-

afticks in their room. C. S&S. Barbe. D. P. S. Barba-

ra. P. Santa Barba. D. F. The Formulary of the Con-

stitution. D. P.

The Chevalier de Bignot, Lieut. in the Regiment of

Marines, going from Verdun to Lyons, with a Mer-

chant who had 11,000 Livres in gold about him; they

were fet upon in the forest of Chaignie, near Chalons,

by 3 Highwaymen, who shot the Merchant dead with a

musket, and wounded the Lieut. with another: but he

fired his pistol, and luckily killed one of the highway-

men, and wounded another, who was taken and carried

prisoner to Dijon; but the 3d made his escape. C. P.

Bignol. D.P. Bignos. D.¥. With a Fufil. D.7.—

I cannot think, that any of these Highwaymen frouldered

a musket: my Brother the Daily Journal /eems to come

nearefi the truth.

SaTurDaAY, O84. 10.

Extract of particular advices from the Hague, O27. 15.

N.S. The great Personage at Berlin continues fiill in a

wd ' ki f 3 fi i i i

Jam. Seton, were elected Bauillies, John Os- : bad of conenoment + Hom Sawn te aiget be Tet, &

he would discover the advisers of his intended escape.

Gen. Cutt’s fon, who is supposed to have had a principal

concern therein, has been confined in a close cell, and

ed only with bread and water; nor has his father been

permitted to fee him. ‘This treatment has fo affeéted the

fold Gentleinan, that he has petitioned the King to pu-

nish his fon with death, if he is guilty 3 or elie to give

him his own difmiiiion from the service, and leave to

be configed with his fon tlk he shall be acquitted. -——

l confined admired much for the excellency of her voice

on a {ufpicion of a particular intimacy between them,

was ordered to be whipt by the common Hangman, and

confined also to bread and water. Her father also was

severely punished for complaining of this hard usage of

his daughter. But upon a rumour that the young lady

was with child, midwives and matrons were appoi

to examine her; who not, only depoted, that fhe was not

with child, but that fhe was a pure virgin. Upon this,

an order was fent last week to release both the daugh-

ter and the father from their confinement; and to repair

as much as possible this injury s another order has been

published since, forbidding any person, under the like pe-

nalties, to reproach her, her father, or family, on account

of the said {suspicion or sufferings, or to mention them ia

any discourse, public or private. C.

Mownpay, O4. 12.

Hague, Of. 10. N.S. Col. Armstrong is at last gone

from Paris. What success his Remonstrances have had,

we will not yet take upon us to fay: but it is reported,

that of late several ships of burden have entered the har-

bour of Dunkirk. P.

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from France.

Paris, Oct. 18. Letters from Constantinople, by the

way of Marseilles import, that the Sophi of Persia. had~

taken the city of Tauris by storm, and put the garrison

to the sword. C. &c.

On the 24th the Card. de Polignac, &c. at Romé,

Went on occasion of the birth of the D. of Anjou, to the

Church of S. Lewis, where Te Deum was fung, during

—— 250 chambers were discharged. C. 250 Cannons.

D. J.

Hanover, Oct. 10. The locufts, which lately swarmed

in Lusatia, and the frontiers of Brandenbourg, have dif-

appeared 5 but left such a taint upon the ground, as to

occasion a general mortality among the cattel. D. P.

Tugspay, Od. 13.

Hague, Oct. 10. We have received advice from Dref-

den, that the K. of Poland is fately arriv’d at Grodno,

where the Dyet was to commence the 3d inilant. P.

Paris, Oct. 6. All the affairs betwee: the Emperor and

the Allies of Seville are reduc’d to this: That the Queen of

Spain has engaged to the Card. de Fieury, that if his Im-

perial Majesty will make any proposals, they shall favourably

be heard. Jé/d.

WepNeESDAY, OZ. 14.

Hague, Oct. 13. N.S. The Prussian Ministers here has

try’d all manner of ways to come at the knowledge of the

ete concern’d with the Officer fent hither by the Prince

oyal; who understanding that inflances were made to have

him delivered up, got on board some vessel, and crofled

the fea. -Oct. 17. Mont. M n has been cited a

3d time by the Court of Holland, for Sodomy; and the

Fiscal has order’d an inventory to be taken of his effects. P.

Hamburgh, Oct. 30. We learn from Mecklemburg, that

the disturbances in that country increase, since the danges

rous designs of D. Charles are discover’d daily, inasmuch ag

several ‘Towns are under associations to stand by his High-

ness with their lives and fortunes, and have formed a cone

{piracy agai:it the Lunenburghers, which has been timely

discover’d, and some of the Contpirator’s seized. D. F.

This Day is Published,

(bth a remarkable Accomut of the(Auchor’s ‘Life, together with bis

Effizies cur onfly engraven on Copper, from a Draught sckon by Mere

Medicis, an italian, ainter)

The Seventh Edition of

Giving POEMS on Ff v.tal suojedts. Wrarten by STEPHEN

DUCK. ately a poor Tarefher ina Bain ty the Cou ty of Waits,

@ the Wages ot Four Shillings aod Six Pence per Week, whict

were publi. kly read bythe Re. tion. the Earl or Macclesfield, in the

Drawing Roum a. Windsor Cattle, on Friday the 14th of Septeme

ber, 1730. to her Mayesry, who was thereupon most graciously

pealed t» take the Author into her Royal Protection, by allowing

him a Salary of Thirty Pounds per Aniten, and a tmaill House ag

Richmond im Surrey to live in, tor che betcer support ot hisfelg

and Family.

Printed ror J. Roberts near che Oxford Arms in Warwick Lane

and fuld by che Bockfellers of Lonzon, and Weltmintiter. Price 6d.

This Day is published,

in a neat Pocket Volume, Price 2s. 64. the Second Edition with Ad-

ditions of

HE Intelligencer, By the ceiebrared Authorot the Taleof a Tub

T Omne vafer vitinm ridenti Flacems avico

Tangit, C Admijjus circum pracordia ludit,

Containing, The ioho(pitable Temper of "Squire Wether. A Vine

dication of Mr.Gay, aud the BeggarsOpera. The Folly of Gaming.

A Deiciiption ot what che Word calis Difretion. A Represen-

tation of the present Condition of Ireland. The Chara&ers of Co

rufodes and Eugenio. A Dialogue between Muliniz and Timoe

thy. The teclith Methods ot Education among the Nobility.

Tin. and Gay’s Fables. Proposals in Prose and Verse for an unte

versal View ot the eminent Writers of che Holy Scripcures. Sir

Ralph the Patriot \ure’d Courrier. The Art or Story-telling. Prometheuss Art ot Man-imekiog, and the Tale of a T--d. The

Services the Draper bus done his Country, and the Steps ken to

yuin it The Adventures of the three Brothers, George, Patrick and Andrew.The Marks of Irelands Poverty, diewn to be evident Proofs of its Rich:s S:. Audrew’s Day, and the Draper's

Birth day. The Hardships of the Irish betog deprived ot cheit

Siuver, and decoy’a inc America. Dean Smedicy pone -o leek hig

For wie. The Pheasant and the Lark: A Fable.

Py ute! tor, and fuid by Fiaucis Cogan, ot the Middle-remple-gace

A young Girl, a fine finger, whom the great Personage

in Fleet-street.

[Page 4.]

Books and Pamputers published in July.

ha Poem addressed to the E. of Burlington: by Al. Le

unt.

Philosophical Transactions, N. 413. for March and Ap.

Literary Journal for April, May, and June.

Dr. Sam. Clarke’s Sermons, III. and LY. volumes.

The Art of Heraldry.

A second Letter to Etiftace Budgell, Esq;

An historical Account of the English Translations of the

Bible: by A. Johnson, A. M.

Christianity not older than the first Gospel promise, &c.

By Benj. Andrews Atkinson.

The metamorphofis of the ' Town, &c. a Tale.

The Historical Register. Numb. lviii.

An Impartial examination of Woolfton’s pretended Rab-

bi’s argument against our Saviour’s refurreétion.

M. de Rapin’s Thoyras English history: by N. Tindal.

V.XI. N. 4.

Morality founded in the reason of things; a Serm. by

Tho. Bott, A. M.

An historical Account of the Society for the propaga-

tion.of the Gospel in foreign parts, to 1728, by Dav.

Humphreys, D. D.

The monthly Chronicle for June.

The pref. State of the Republick of Letters, for June.

The pref. State of Europe, or monthly Mercury, for June.

Historia Literaria, for ig Numb. IT.

Modern History, by Mr. Salmon, N. 72. compleating

Vol. >I.

» An Epistle to T. L. at the golden A—r in Cornhill: a

oem.

The Musick Speech at the Camb. Commencement: by

John Taylor, M.A.

Oratio habita coram Acad. Cantab. die folenni martyrii

Caroli I. 4 Joan. Taylor, A. M.

Quaftiones una cum carminibus in magnis Comitiis

Cantabrigiz celebratis. 1730.

The Black Joak; or, Tunbridge Miscellany.

A Poein to the Lord and Lady Brudenell, &c. by Al.

Le Hunt, M. A.

Colonel Split-tail: a new Opera.

The noble Duelliits, or Macario’s welcome to the fhades:

a Poem.

Reasons against a war: by a Member of the H. of

Commons.

An Essay on the trade and improvement of Ireland:

by Ar. Dobbs, Eiq;

A meditation on necessity, demonstrating the necessity

of having a wicked and blundering M &c.

The Looking glass: a Pindaric Poem.

One Epittle to Al. Pope, Efqs occasioned by the one

Epittle.

* Excerpta quedam ex Luciani operibus, per N. Kent.

On Tuesday Stocks were,

South Sea 103 3 8ths. South Sea Annuity 108 5 8ths

to3 qr. Bank 1411 qr. tor half. Indiai89. Three

per Cent. Annuity 97 1 half. Royal Exchange Assurance

923 qrs. London Assurance 12 3 qrs. York Build-

ings p+ South Sea Bonds 5 1. 13s. Premium. India dit-

tos!. 16s. ditto. Million Bank 10g. Bank Circulation

.. 2s. 6d. per Cent. Premium. Benefits 1710 9g 1 qr.

ears Purchase. Nevis and S. Christopher’s Debent. F}

1

per Cent. Discount. EnglishCopper 31.17s.6d. Wel

ditto 31.

The Course of Exchange.

Madrid 42 1 half

Bilboa 42 7 8ths

Leghorn 51 3 8thsa 1 4th

Genoa 54.1 4th

Venice 48 7 8ths

Lisbon 5 s. 6d.

Porto 5s. 5d

Dublin 10 3 4ths

Amsterdam 34 8

Ditto at fight 34 5

Rotterdam 349 a1o

Antwerp 35 4

Hamburgh 33

Parisat fight 323 Sths

Bourdeaux at fight 321 4th

Cadiz 42 1 half a 3 8ths

Lay 4 of Goods at Bear Key. Qu

o per Quarter r Quarter

Wheat —— 23 to 26 Hog ei ies to 16

Rye —— 20 to 22 | Boiling Peas— 2@ to 24

Barley + 12 to 20 | Pale Malt — 22 to 26

_ Oats — gto 13 Brown Malt—zo0 to 24

Horse Beans 22 to 26 =| Tares —- 20 to 23

Coals 22s. to 26s. per Chaldron.

Hops 1729 — 26s. to 39s. per Hundred.

Hops 1730 — 40s. to 60s. per Hundred.

Rape Seed 111. torr]. 10s. per Lat.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

J2Aow gublithed,

The New Edition, in 17 Vols. in Folio, of

F OE DERA, Coyvenrioxzs, LITER A, & cujr sque Generis

Acva PunLiIca, ine: Recess AnGLiz£,& alios quoivis Impera-

tores, Reges, Pontitices, Principes, vel Commmunttaes, ab ineunte Szculo

Duodecimo, viz. ab Anno 1101, ad noftea ufque Tempora, Fabita

aut Tractata; Ex Autographis, infra Secsetiores Archivorum Re-

giorum Thefaurarias, per muita facula reconditis, fdeiiter Exfcripte.

In Lucem mifla de Mandato nupere Regina. Accurante THOMA

RyMER, ejufdem Screniflime Regine Historiagrapho. Editio fe-

cunda, ad Originales Charcas in Torri Loncinenfi denuo summa

fide Collata & Emendata, Studio GronGil HotmEs. Impeniis

Jacobo Tonfon,

This Day ig Publishes,

Beautifally printed from the 2 Vols.in 410 with improvements, an ¢ é

writing Paper, in txo Pocket Vols. in By. Price Six Shillings bowng.

POEMS by Attan Ramsay,

Let them censure what care I,

The herd of Criticks I defy:

Ne, no, she Fair, the Gay, the Young

Govern the numbers ef my Song:

All that they approve is sweet,

And all is sense that they repeat.

Prior from Anacreon,

Printed for J. Clark in Duck-lane; Weaver Bickerton withone

Temple-Barr 5 A. Millar against St. Clement's Church in the Strang;

F, Cogan ai the Middle Temple-gate, Fleet-street; R. Willock in

Cornhill, and S. Palmer and J. Huggonfon, Printers in Bartholomey,.

Close.

_ monftrated in an eaf

BOOKS lately Printed and Suld by B. MoTTE, at the Middle Temple

Gate, Fleet-street,

I. HE Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy. By Sir

Isaac Mewron. Translated into Engitth by ANDREW

Motre. To which are added» The Laws ot the Moon’s Motion

according to Gravity. By Jons Macuin, Proteffor ot Astronomy

at Gretham College, and Secretary to the Royal Socie:y. In two Vo-

umes.

Il. Sir Richarnp BAxeRr’s Chronicle of the Kings and Queers

Of this Realm, continued cw the End of che Reign of his late Ma-

j fty King George I, By an Impartial Hanc- Fouo.

II. Sylva: Or a Discourse of Fore Trees. By Joun EVenyn

Efy; F.K.S. To which ase added, his Terra, Poinona, aid ali his

other Treatises upon Gardening.

iV. A Survey of the Ancient Husbandry and Garden’ng, ColleGed

from Cato, Varro, Columella, Vigil, and others the most eminent

Writers amongst the Grecks and Romans, By RB. BRADLEY, Pro-

feflor of Botany in the University of Cambridge, and F.R. S.

V. The Works of Ber Johnson. Confifting of all his Plays, Po-

ems and other Pieces. In Sia Volumes.

VI. A Treatise of the Mechanical Powers: Wherein the Laws of

Motion, and the Properties of those Powers are explained and de-

and ianailiar Method. Being the Substance oi

certain Lectures read a: the Geomecry Lecture ac Gresham College.

By ANEREW MOTTE.

O&cher 1$, 173% ;

Now finished, and will be publifked the Middle of next Menth (which

compleats the CO LLL EC TION)

The FIFTH and SIXTH VOLUMES of i

Tike MUSICAL MISCELANY: Being a Colle&ion of

Cnoice Sones and Lyaick Poems: With the BAssEs to each

Tune, and transpos’d jor the FLure. Ser by the most eminent

afters.

Phreed by and for Jous Wars at the Printing Ofhce in Wild-

Court, near Lincoln’s-lin-Fields. And fold by the Booksellers both

of Town and Country. Of whom may be had

The FIRST FOUR VOLUMES.

On Saturday will he publihed,

The OCCASIONAL WRITER, N° lH,

SoLpD by the Booxfellers and Pamphlet-Shops of London and

Westminster, Price 6 d.

Where may be had the ad Edition of Numb. I.

Fu publishes,

In 2Vols. 8vo. Price bound 10s.

T AIRTY NINE SERMONS by the late Rev. Fchn Cook,

A. M. Reétor of the United Parishes of St. George the Martyr,

and St. Mary Magdalen in Canterbury, and of Mersham in Kent, and

one of the fix Preachers of the Cathed:al Cherch ot Canterbury: From

the manuscript Copy, prepared by himlelt tor the Press: (there being

{-veral Copies of some of the Sermons abroad in Writing, firstgranted

at the Request of the Countess of Coventry, and other Personsof Di-

ftinstion.) On the following Heads and Occasionss viz. Of Faith.

Of Happiness. Of coming toChrif. Of Vanity. Of Righteou{ness, Tem-

perance, and Judgment tocome. Cleann+{s mistaken. Of God’s Omni-

feionce. On Prayer. Of Friendship nith God. Of the Enmity of the

Devil. Of Resolution in Faith and Pradlice. Of Proving and Perfe-

vering. The Nature of Cleanne{s. Naaman’s Cure. Of Vision, Reve

lation, and Repentance. Of Zeal when commendable. When faulty. The

Crown of Blifs and Glory, The Righteoms Man’s Reward. The Wicked

Man's Lot, The ne ge 6 of Mourning. The Blessedness of Meekness

Mercy to the Merciful. Of Purity in Heart. Of holding fafi the

F.ith. Godly Fear and Obedience. Of Covetoufness. Of the Sabbath.

Sion preferred. Of Superfiition. The Difficulty of Salvation. On St.

Peter's Denial. On the Fifth of November; preached before the Lower

House of Convocation, who requested this Sermon to be prined.

Printed by E. C. tor L. Gitniven, at Homer's Head against Sr.

Dunstan’s Church in Fleet: street.}

BOOKS printed for JoHN BRoTHER TON, at the Bible next the

Fleece Tavera in Cornhill.

Blair’s Sermons, ¢ Vole.

Lite ot Oliver Cromwel

Gordon’s Geog. Grammar

Boileau Oevre poetique

Pilgrim’s Progress

Taies of the Fairies, 3 Vol

Ex. lifh Tutor

Musical Diaionary

Shakespear’s Plays

Congreve’s Works

Garth's Ovid

Cambden’s Britannia

Rurkit on the New Testamenr

L’Eflrange’s Josephus

Tiliotfon’s Works, 3 Vols.

Bacon’s Works, 4 Vols.

Lock's Works, 3 Vol.

Oldenburgh of Exchanges

Addison’s ‘Works, 4 Vols. 4to

Puffendorf’s Law ot Nature

Bailey’s Dictionary, tol.

Wcod’s Institutes, tol.

Carckas’s Rates, fol. Boye:’s Telemachus

Stevens’s Spanish Dictionary Meige’s State of Britain.

With Variety of single Plays and Pamphlets.

This Day is published,

THE Lire of MAHOMET. Translated trom the French Ort.

ginal written by the Count of Boulainvilliers, Auchor of the Pron

fent State of France, and of the Hiforical Memoirs thereto iubjoined,.

*Tis true, Compoling is the Nobler Part,

But good Trauslation is no cafy Art. Roscommon.

Printed tor W. Hinchliffe, at Dryden’s Head under che Royal-Ex-

change.

This Day is published,

Being a Book of general Use for Clergymen, Gentlemen and Far

Written by WALLIAM BOoHUN of the Middle Temple, Efai

THE Law of TyTHEs, shewing their Nature, Kinds, Propete

ties and Encidents, by whom, when, and in what manner pay-

able; how and in what Courts to be fued for and recovered, and

what Things, Lands or Personsare charged with, u1 excmpied there

from. With the Nature; Incidents and Effects of Cuftems and Pre.

{criptions, real Compositions, Modus Decimandi, Libels, Suggestions,

Prohibitions, Coniulrauons, &c. wherein all the Statutes and adjust

Cafes relating to the Subje& are introduced and considered.

Printed for WEAVER BicKER TON, at the Lord Bacon’s Head, the

Corner of Palfgrave’s-iiead-Court, without Temple- Bur.

Of whom may be had,

Mr. Cowexn of Hoxton’s Curious and Profitable Gardener; cone

taining the m it ufetul Experiments tor improving Lind by Grain

and Seed, &c. Also a Description otf his great American ALog

and other extraordinary ExoTickse»

mers,

This Day is published,

N APPEAL fo the genuine RECORDS and TESTIMONIES

of Heathen and Jewish Writers; being iull Evivewce for the

Truch of the Chiiftian Religion, and its primitive Doctines. In le

veral Conferences. Part I.

The Trath of the Bottom is piainly this: All the great Things that

modern Deifis affect to foy of Right Reason, as t) its Sufficiency

in discovering the Obligations and Motives of Morality, is only@

Pretence to be made use of, when they are opps/ing Christianity,

Dr. Clarke in his Boy!e’s Lectures,

Refrain net to {peak when there is Occasion to do Good: Strive fat

the Trath up to Death, and the lord shall fight for thee.

} Ecciu!. iv. 23. 28,

Printed for L. GinxiVer at Homer’s Head agaiuit oc. Dunstan’s

Church, Fleet-street. Price 1s. 6d.

Where may be had, juf? publish’d,

An Essay, founded upon Arguments Naural and Moral provin

‘he Immortality of the Suul. Translated irom the original MSS. of

‘the Archbifhup ot Cambray. Price: s.

Dr. GODFREY’s General Cordial,

So universally approved of for the Cholick, and al! manner of

Pains ia the Bowe's, Fluxes, Fevers, Small-Pox, Meafles,

Rheumatisms, and Keftlcfiness in Men, Women, and Clild-

ren, and particularly for several Ailments incicent to Childe

es women, and Relief of young Chikdren in breeding thei

S fold in most Citics, Boroughs, and Market-Towns

throughout Great-Britain and Ireland; removd from

Hunfdon to Broxborn in Herttordfh re: And tor the Conve-

niency of supplying all chose parts, there are established by

me BENJAMIN GODFREY thefé following Whole

sale Warehouses, viz.

John Wettlake’s in Queen-street, Bristol;

William Furly’s, Dittiller, ar the Black Prince, in the

Market-Placy, in the City of Norwich.

Peter Leadbeater’s, Distiller, in Weft Chesters

Mr. Button’s, Boukfeller, on the Bridge ac Newcastle

upon Tyne 3

Mr. Brooke’s, Distiller, on the Blind-key, Dublin.

As also at my Originals Warehouse, facing Angel-Alley,

Without Bishopsgate, London.

Any reputable Shop-keeper in any City, Borough, of

Market-Town, where this Mcdicine is not alrcady fold, may

= supply’d at any of the said Warc-houses with good Als

owance.

N. B. The Publick are desired to take Notice, (to prevent being imposed on) that there is an ill minded Person who counterfeits the said Medicine, and puts the Title of Godfrey’s Cordial on the top of the Bottles, and in his Bills given with the Bottles, he calls it The GENERAL CORDIAL, and does not put the Person’s Name who prepares

it; but as this Counterfcir Maker is now found out by ns

own Confession, he and his Sellers will be prosecut-d as t%

Law directs (as Impcftors): And to prevent the Buyers from

being impos’d on, I have put my Christian Name on the Top of each Bottle, which is prepared

By me Benjamin Godfrey, M.D.

The price of each Bottle is 6d.

LONDON: Printed by A. Moore, for Captain Gulliver, near the Temple, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in.

[Price Two Pence.]

