The Grub-street Journal.

Numb. 47.

Thursday, NOVEMBER 26, 1710.

Remember Milo’s end,

Wederdin that timber, which he firove to rend.

E. of Roscommon’s Essay.

The following Letter, which contains excellent advice to the Political Writers of our Society, was highly approved, and ordered to be printed without any alterations, as a mark of our esteem for the Author; to whom we return our hearty thanks.

To the Authors of the Grub-street JOURNAL.

Gentlemen,

THOUGH you profefs your selves Mem-

bers of Grub-street, and advocates for

that ancient Society, I have some rei-

fon to fifpeét that you cre false Bre-

thren, and have a wicked delign of

expoiing the Grubean Art to co tempt,

under a {pecious pretence of defending

it, by the modern Jesuitical method of ironies and ix-

yuendes. If this Is your design, I would advile you to

take care how you put it in execution: for as mean

an opinion as you may entertain of the Profeilors of th's

Art, Icanaffure you, that they are at presentin an high

degtee of favour, and under the protection of very powe:

ful Patrons. 1 cannot help thinking, for my part, that the

frequent correction of your own Members, the rules you

lay down to the., the »bounds you prescribe them, an

d

the endeavours which you have uled to restrain them trom

all excentrick motions, favour strongiy of such a design :

for the eflence of Gruvism, and particularly of the po-

litical Bathos, confilts in dullnets and Billingsgate. If there-

fore, the Gentieme of that Society should obey your pre-

cepts, and futier thein‘clves to be led into the path:

which you have mar’’d out, by observing good inan-

ners, language, confijtency or argument; they would

Aofe their distinguishing characterilticks, and degenerate into

mere Parnaflian Writers.

These, Gentlemen, are my suspicions at present, and

they are strengthen’d by the minutes you have given us

of your Pega/ea. Club; which, methinks, breathes an air

some what different from the climate of Grud /Preet. Bat

if I should happen to be miilaken, as I hope I am, in

these conjeClures, and you are really concern’d in earnett

for the honour and wellfare of that Society, which gives

‘a title to your Papers I shall be always ready to con-

tribute my poor endeavours towards the support of a

cause, in which thousands of my Countrymen are f

nearly concern’d.

My design, at present, is to point out the px.iections

of your Pclitical Brethren (as you affect to call thei)

and to give them some fcalonable hints; upon the obter-

vation of which, I conceive, the present flourishing con

dition of their Society absolutely depends. For tho’ it

is not your design to enter into any diiquifitions, con-

cerning the measures of Mixifers; yet you have given

us to understand, in several of your Papers, that you will

examine the conduét of Political Writers, as well as others ;

and give me leave to tell you, that they are pofleis’d of

the largest, as well as the molt fruitfull province, in the

Whole extended dominions of Gud-street.

Ihave some whcere met with alearned observation, that

the dulleft and most plodding Fellows always make the bett

Statesmen; and, I remember, the Author quotes {everal

instances out of Hifiory, to illuflra >the truth of it. Ano-

ther learned Writer, upon the fame subject, ol

Mercury is of fo volatile a nature that there

ing it to political affairs.

If this be true, that Grurprans make the bet Po/ti-

¢ians, it follows of consequence, and, I hope, will mot be

denied by the Craftsv:an himieli, that they likewise make

the best Political Writers; whoie productions ought always

to be grave and folid; or, in plain English, hard and

heavy. For this reason, it gives me infinite pleasure to

read the works of our modern Political GrusE‘Ns, Who

carefully avoid the least appearance of wit, humour or

pleasantry in themselves, and alwavs {peak of them with

the vtmost contempt in others.

But there are two or three points, in which I think

their conduct highly blameable, as it may

to the prejudice of your Society.

In the frit place, I think it very

&@ exclaim against the liberty of tue

iio

4

erves, that

is no fi x

tend very much

inipolitick in them

picis, Or tO give the

Ee Ser

-<— 25cr8e 8 or

least countenance to any restraint upon it: becanf it

mult absolutely end in the destruétion of themselves. The

best way of arguing with these Weiters, is always from

considerations of {elf-interest; and I mutt therefore beg

of them seriously to consider what they are doing, when

they suffer too officious a zeal for their Patrons to hurry

them into any refle¢tions against the liberty of writing.

They cannot turely be ignorant, that their present favour

and good plight are intirely owing to this liberty; and

that their Patrons would have no occasio for advecates,

if they had no Writers agiinfl them. The former are

properly the dependents of the latter, who supply them

With materials from week to week, as well as with a

pretension to rewards and encourig¢ment.

Old Isaac Bickersrarr, or his friend the Spefator,

compares the feribblers against him to a parcel of iniects,

Who live upon the wholesome fruits of the earth, and

muit necessarily perish as soon as they decay. These po-

itical animaleua are in thé fame condition: and as they

uwe toe exilence to the advocates for liberty, {fo it

will ceaie of course, whenever they happen to fall, either

by a natural or political death,

Nothing therefore can be more absurd than for these

GruBeans to quarrel with the liberty of the press 5 or

to throw out whit they may call arguments for any re-

iiralots upon it; Wich mult involve them in the iame

ruin with those who first gave them being, and ilill con-

tinue to support them: for it political dissertations should

ever be suppreis’d, they would find it very difficult to get

their bread in any other way. ‘They know very well,

by fatal experience, that their Writings will not {ell ot

themselves: and how can they expect any afliftance trom

their preiest Patrons, when their cause is no longer in

quetion? No, they will toon find a terrible alteration.

‘Whey will not then have the honour of being admitted

‘Oo levées and private visits. The pleasing enjoyment, or

expectation of rewards will be taken away. They will

have no more kind orders upon the Tr——y to buatt of 5

no frther indulgence from the Po? Office: nor will all

tne Zittle people iv emplo:me.t, throughout the kingdom,

'e any longer obliged to propagate and cry up their

Papers, on pain of displeasure.

My next piece of advice to these Gentlemen is some-

what akin to the former; and tht is, not to plead for

iny extraordinary proceedings, or methods of pu. ¢h-

ment, which may, one day, reteré very heavily on them-

telses For whenever ir ibs be their fate to write against

Nien in power (and they seem apprehensive themselves,

(htt «cen in power will ever employ them again,) they

oul fland in need of the greateit latitude of expression,

and the most unlimited impunity. Should even the or-

dinaiy forms of law be exerted against them, they must

drop at, once: for as they are utter strangers to ary art,

delicacy or address in writing, they would run directly

into the very jaws of a prosecution, and Mr. A¢toryey

Gereral would find no difhculty in hampering them,

without having recourse to parallels,

elie

doe

ih

ironies, or innu-

does.

The last thing I shall mention agsblameable in the con-

dact of our Political Gruszans, is their setting up the

charaéter of a Writer as the best rule of interpreting his

meaning. For you know, Gentlemen, that the Members

of your Society are not, generally {peaking, the most

remarkable instances of moral rectitude. I could even

point out some of them, who would run a great hazard

in ttanding a trial at the O/d Bai/y, 1 their characters were

to be the only evidence produced against them.

I hope therefore, that you will make use of your au-

thority to restrain your Political Brethren in thele thice ref-

pects; and not iuifer them, for the future, to serve the

purposes of an hungry belly, by infiiting upon points which

tend to the absolute deltruction of you and your potle-

rity forever. Iam,

Gentlemen, your confiant Reader

Aad Well wither,

PHito-Duncuvs.

Little-Britaix,

O.2.10, 1730.

To PETER ——— at his house in Westminster.

Friend Perer,

Am sorry

and

thou didit- depart my habitation in wrath :

thac thy mouth thould be filled with murmur-

o; against me, who hach not done any evil unto thee:

I eat not of thy bread, nor drank of thy wine, whilst

thee and thy tamily fojourn’d with me; for thou didtt

always behave thy self with ftubborness. Moreover, when

the Wife of thy bofom was in travail, thou called’{t not

unto me to miniiter help and comfort unto her, ac-

cording unto the custom of Women; neither gaveft theu

God the glory for the fon that was born unto thee in

mine house, but didit vaunt in pride and unrighteoufness 5

wherefore hath the Lord laid his hand upon thee, and affliéted

thine houshold with fore sickness, even unto death —

I know that thro’ the pride and vanity of thine heart,

because that thou art appointed to take care of the King’s

treasure, thou willt look on me as a weak, illiterate Wo-

man, and, perhaps, laugh me to scorn; yea, and shew

this mine epiftle unto thy maid and man servants, who

wait within thy gate, that they may also mock:

yet will my heart de{pife those doings; for many of the

Nobles of the land havé dwelt with me in peace, and

I have been greatly honoured of them. Where-

fore, Perer, fetteft thou thy foul on unrighteous things,

and thus treatelt me evilly ?

And whereas thou didit reproach my Son Wittram

with idlene{s, and fullrefs of bread: thou shouldit first

have taken the beam from the eye of Isaac, thy bro-

ther; and remember’d his abominations when he was

drunken with wine, and attempted unrighteous things in

the palace of our Lord the King beyond the feas. Nay,

I muit tell thee, that other of thy kinsfolk stand not well

vith the people; for there gocth forth evil report of them

in the jlreets of Ajcalon.

Thy afflicted friend,

Ruri C,———

From the place of my absde, called

Little H house, near unto

the fide of the road, as thou goeft

u.to the land of Hammer|mith.

The fir day of the ninth month.

To the Author of that inimitable Paper called the Fees

Briton.

Hye while --———— darts his golden ray,

And chears thee with refulgent beams of pay.

¥et nor their heat, nor light informs thy mind :

Cold is thy fancy, and thy judgment blind.

So good a Caule, that yields fo great a gain,

By thee dawb’d o’er with excrement of brain,

Smells itvong in thy prepofterous Essays,

Where praiic is fatire, and where fatire’s praise.

Tho’ Noné thy works admire, All wonder ttill

At the Free Brairons and Free Patrows {kill ;

That He to well should pay, Thou write {fo ill.

Bavius.

LONDON.

THuurvay, No-.19.

The latter end of lift week the boad of Directors of

the India Company appointed tie Rev. Mr. Wynch, Chap-

lon at their F ctory at Fort S. George, and the Rev, Mere

White, Chapiain at S Helena. C.

Barly yesterday morning, ir. Clements, a Baker in Mil-

ford-lane in the Stran?, had a Letter thrown into. his

shop, &c. P. ——-- The following is a co y of the said

Letter. Wedne da;, London, Nov. 18, 1730. * Mr. C’e-

‘ ments, This 1 to warn you to pur 15 guineas this

niviit, berween gQ and 10 0’ clock, ucder the post ae

your Bakchoute deor. and if vou do no’, expect that

your Wite and you fi) live an hour atter, and your

house shall by fire. Likewise inform our

ifo

be consumed

© Brother Snith, that he is warved aio co pat 7 guineas,

‘ his watch, and a ring that he wears, at che fame time,

‘under the Spout that carries the water trom off your

‘ houir, or between the window and the said Spour, and

‘ uyon his noi 19 loing, ic and hig W ‘te mutt likewise

¢ expe to futler imme itate death, with vou ond yours,

The fameafternoon My. Smith received alercer,

Xe. Df.

| 4 Ee.

TuefGay in the afternoon the following Letter was de-

livered'ta ML. hts fervonr viz.

To Mr. Robert hall an apholfrer at the angell in Hon/-

ditch, thees. © Siu, *° de

‘ ot ive pounds, tor to

©‘ corner of yare

¢ without ra! ’

4

re as yOu Youd sena me thesum

le lad- under the Lamp post the

Church Wall io thendich, This N rhe

upon the penalty of Death to you or youre

¢ Wife if ever you are fean apy more ut the oure of seven

‘or Eacht of Clock this” prefert enftant November

¢ the 17.3730. ‘Vherctur Dont tale me, for If you do,

[Page 2.]

<1 will Grranly be the Death of you and youre Wife,

Rebert Hal’. P. From ibe spelling of this Letter

1 am a litte jujpicieus, that jome of our Renegado Mem-

bers, not deing able to live -by Ww cekty Journal or Re-

pitte, aré turning tncenciaie: in a literal sense.--

Beware of a le.g-chind Hack, remarkable fur some ele-

gant trans ations of Low (Dutch) < are.

Tuei:. ait the Hon Edw. Eig; youngest fon to

the R. Hou. the L. Vile. Torringte:, was married to

Mrs. Bran fton ot Chigwel’, a Lady ot 40,000 '. Fortune

DP. 4E>.

Yefs; morning his Royal Highne’s the Prince of

Wales, oro d 4 by several of the: ficers of his houfhoid,

want oo Kk ren fo piay atnine-pins; his Reya! High

neis having been recommerded to that diversion, as bein,

a heslthtu!l bodily exercttt. DP. EP. SF. WE.

I do affirm, this ancient Englifo game of ninc-pins,

Sf om my ow: long experience, to be not only a neaithful bee

Gily oxcrane, bat Ldewise one which imp oves the mird. “

The Dean aid Chap ey of Weitouslter have order G ai

the Tombs, Monuments, and Windows, in the Abbey to

be pertestiy chan’d against next Christmas. DP. 4 Ev.

Laft mond. moin. there was found under Mrs. Jack-

fon’, dour in Exerer, aletrer, fiened Legion, requiring her

to put ¢ guincas in a post by ine Fryers yrate, adjoining

to her hou{:; or in case of non-compliance, fhe might ex-

peat Mir. Packer's tare. DF. 4 Em

Laftt mon: a letter was tent by the Gegeral Post to

M:. Rafhicigh, a Tradesman at Chiping Wicomb in Buck-

inghemshire, cemanding 15 guineas to be put into a bag

covered wita straw near his own back door; and tn cate

o his not complying, threatning to det fire to his houte.

oo”

we

Tl 'y

fent to Mr. Spragging, a Raft

The following lines were

Merchant at Newark, viz.

Spraccine remember thou art but dust,

Ancé to thy neighbour very unjutt:

Thou neither sticks at great nor {mall,

"Til. vengeance once does on thee fall.

} think how soon thou wil be undone;

In fames of fire thy ratrs shall burn,

Ad ucither escape tly houte nor thee.

Mik «Well thete words, tor } have said

What I intend, when thou are in ved.

WE.

This Tift: 1 verto confirens my fu/picions before-mentiored

toe Poetry being ix the jame firain which appears weekly

a7

r uch 2 of those which were yent in a threatnirg let-

ter to Mr. v1 tivivy printed in our 42 Journa., and jeem

to come from the jame hand,

Marke we., What here inclos'd I fend,

Or toon expect a tata end,

His Royal ihohness the Duke presented her Majesty

Jarcy with nis Tran, ation of the Roman History, wrote

fw J in Latin by Sixtus Rufus; which her Majesty

recewea with much pleamre and ijatistaétion, and was

piraicd to make his Royal Highnel a handtome present.

Ar Bernard Lens, Miniature Painter to his Majesty, is ap-

poinred to teach Ins Royal Highnets and che Princets Mary,

to (ran 4 Ew.

The BK. or Durcmore, one of the 16 Pcers of North

Britain. hath kiflea the King’s han! on his being none

mated one of the Knivhts tiethron of the molt antients

and most noble order or the Thille. EP. WE.

On tucitay came an account from Berlin, rhat the

guards which attended the P. Roysl ot Pruflic, had by his

Prussian Matefly’s order been withdrawn. WE. LE.

Lait week dicd at his feat near Bridgewater, Sir Half

weil Tynte, Bar member of Parliament for that place,

and is iucceeded in dignity and estate by his next Brother,

now Sir John Yynt:, Bar. WE.

On tuetiay died James Metcalf, Efg; one of the repre-

fer iveson Palament tor the town of Bedtord. 4 Ev.

The Dail Fourna’, fat. 21. fays, there are hopes, and the

Fof boy, that inc 1s ina tair way of recovery,

Fripvay, Nov. 20.

Yeft-rday both houte of i arliament met, and were fur-

they prorogued to thuriday Dec. 17, C. D F.

The jame day Mr Tho. Sait r was nomiated one of

the Governors of Chrifi’s hospital. D P.

The noted Niary Barber, alias Ruflet, who lately kept

the Pountain taverngin Drury-lane, was on tuciday com-

mi’ othe Gate house for beating the Constables. P. ---

I wonder bow many frout Constables this Virago de-

mo.ished.

Wwe near from S. Edmun.’shury, that one Wii> Pope,

Jate of Castleniing, in the County of Norfolk, was on

fat committed to that goal, upon suspicion of stealing

a silver tankard = t4e had avout him 3; fiver watches,&c.

i ¢ had alio 1m his polleition 8 horses, 7 at the Angel in

Bury, ani « lame at Bradfield Manger, where he was ta-

ken with: riders to the said hories D fF.

Friday a letter was dropp’d into a cellar-window be-

lon wy to the house of Franc. Cocks, E'a; at Appleby in

Le hinted at above: the 2 laff lives rejembe *e-

25 guineas in an-old hat that should be left at Mr. James's

joer: and; in case of fefufa!, threatning to fer fire to their

hou es, and murder them and their families. id.

Tivo men have heen apprehended at Croydon, the one

1 Mulatto, and the other an irishman) tor fending a threat-

ning letter to Mr. Pet. Champion of that town: we hear

that the Mulatto has informed against the Trifhman.

Ibid. Both equally bonest, but one a little more

cunning than the other.

SATURDAY, Nov. 21.

We hear that P, Walter of Westminster, Ef; had yesterday

yne of the modern villainous threatning letters fent him. D P.

4Ev. —Onwedn. night Mr. Cholmly, the Baokbinder,

‘a Bennet’s-court in the Strand, had a qth letter fent

him, &c. bid. One of the same sort of letters,

sign'd Old Nick, was received by Mr. Sparks, a Victual-

ler in S:anhope ftrest, Clareemarket, a few days since.

DF. SF. WE. LE. A few days ago Mr.

Tho. benuey, of Sandwich, received aletter directing him

to put 10 guineas into the mouth of a Cannon. He, be-

ing fo adviled, put the 10 guineas as directed. On wedn.

night 4 men came to the Cannon, one of which they

seized, with his hand in it, but the other 3 escaped. He

proved to be an inhabitant of the town named Burton,

an! ’tis believed he cannot write DF. 4 Ev.

Yesterday a Proclamation was punish’d against persons

‘elonioully fending letters, demanding money, or other ef+

tects, and against other offenders therein mentioned; where-

oy a reward of 300 |. is offered for discovering and appree

hending (within the {p ce of one year next enfuinz) any

person, who within these 4 months pa@ hath fent,. or

hereatter shall fend any threatning letters, demanding mo-

nev, &c. or hath, or shall hereatter, set fire to any houte, &c.

provided they be convicted thereof; and likewise a free

rardon and the fame reward to any one who fha!! discover

his accom lices, except the person who aétually iet fire

to any house, &c. the reward to be paid immediately ufp-

on conviction. DP. DF. 4E£v.

Yesterday came advice ot the death of the Hon. and

Rev. Lumicy Lloyd, Reét. of S. Paui’s Covent-garden, at

his house at Cheem in Surrey, very eminent for his cus

rious collection of flowers. W_ hear he has left the bulk

of his estate to the L. John Rufel, brother to the D, of

Bedford. DF. Ep. SF. LE. Cheam. WE.

Fred, Huddicfon, Efgs lately died at his feat ot Milum-

Caft'c, in the County of Cumberland, whole ancestors were

famed tor their Loya'ty in the Royal cause, and is succeed=

¢e: by his eldest fon Will. flu ‘dlefon, Etq; P. EP. WE.

Yestercay his Majesty’s Proclamation mony, amount-

ing to 3001. for taking the 3 young highwavmen at Winde

for ang Darchet, was pridto rhe clamers. DP. 4 Ev.--

The pur&ua! payment of such mony would joon diminif~D

the umber of these lefer rogues.

Extract of a iecter trom Canterbury, Nov. 19. On

wedn. between 12 and 1 in the morn. the house ot Adm

‘lerrice, at Great Bettefhaneer, was attacked a 4th time,

by a gang of vile rogues, between whom and the guard

within, there was consideravie firing through ‘ie

dows, fo that 5 ‘mall musket halls were lodged in a pare

tition, and one of the guard narrowly escaped being killed 5

however, the viilains were at last forced to retire, and next

morning a grea’ quantity of blood was icen on the ground,

by which it was believed that one or more of the villains

were killed, or n uch wounded. D fF.

Another letter was fent on the 17th to Dr. Allen, of

Bridgewater, which seems to be writ in ‘the Hilernian

strain, viz. ‘Sir, Sence have fent unto you and you hav

* not an{were’, and you will obstinate and will not com

* ply with the Propoia's that I made, and I find that you

* have not done as! command you, thert it is better that

* you will comply then that your Hous be burnt tor it

* you do not an{fwer it, I will do this by G—-d, you have

* fet a watch, but we will do it when we fee fit and con--

* venient, and will do it effectually by G---d, you think be.

* cause we do not do it the time propose that we will do

‘ jt not at all and that is what you fit your resolution

‘ upon. Your mistaken Packer Turn is gone and your

* will come {peecdely upon my foul. I conclude. It cost

¢ me money in paper you shall pay for it by G--d. We

* was present with yo. last night. S%.-— My Brother of

S James's I believe guefes rights the jyntax, reasoning

[pelling, pointing, [wearing, We. foew this to be a true

‘wild Irish Epistle.

Monpay, Nov. 23.

On fat. evening the King and Queen, in their return

from Richmond, were unhappily overturned in his Ma.

jefy’s body coach, which fell into a ditch between Ful-

ham and Chelsea, occasioned by the darkaefs of the night,

and the Poftilions not having a light be‘ere him. There

were 2 Ladies [of the Bed-chamber. C.] in the coach: bur,

through providence, none of them received any hurt. D P.

In the evening, it being very dark, and [the wind, I /up-

poje,} blowing fo hard that they could not keep their

tlambeaux lighted, the King’s coach was unhappily over-

turned, received no manner of hurt. C. For

this reason, I am not of the opinion of my 2 Brethren, but

Westmoreland, requiring him and one Mr. James, to put © ¢h/n# the coach was eery bappi/y overturned.

Sat. laf Francis James, L.L.D. Fellow of Trin'+y a

Camb. was {worn in and admitted Advocate ar Doors

Commons: in the morning into the Court of Arches,

Dr. Bettesworth, Dean 5 and in the afternoon into the High

Court of Admiraltry, by Sir Hen. Penrice, Judge. D Pp?

Laft week Sond dontaing letters were fent to feye.

ral of the inhabitants of Brentford, demanc.ng certain fums

of money, &c.—= Tuef. last a lecter was cropped in the

Crown-lnn yard in Bland ford, directed to Mr. John

Pearcy, Matter of the said Inn, threatning to fet his hay.

ricks on fire, &c. P.

From Marlborough we have an account, that an anony.

mous letter was feat to one Mr. Bickne', a Shop keeper

at Wootton-Baflet, cemanding ¢ guineas, &c. that he did

not put the money as required, but fet a watch the fir

night, and no body coming to look for the money, they

neglected to watch the second night, wen his back-house

was fet on fire, which was intirely consumed, and it was

very near catching hold of hisdweiing-house. The lofsig

computed at so]. DF.

Letters from Lath give an account, that Edw. Afie, EQ:

Representative for Heytsbury in Wilts, died thie atter @

tedious indi:pofi ion, Jdid.

We hear it isordered, that no Constabl: shall go out of

his Watch houf? till 6 in the morning 5 and that the (ij:

Marsha!s have ttri€t orders trom tne R. U1. the L.. Mayor,

to prosecute any who shall be found off {ooner, J P.

This is in Y. of tuefd. 24.

Yesterday the L. Buhop of Salisbury ordained feyerat

Priests and Deacons at the Chapel in King’s-icet, near

Golden-{quare: among whom wore the Rev. Mr. Gough and

Mr. ©::, 2 Gentlemen of the D fleating Pe faagen loid.

~— [his isa much more acrecable manner of reconciine

dD ffen'i i Veschers dy) the Ce bie hb of Ex. lard, than thet

wished for in our laf, in the refeSions upau Mr. *toiman's

death; if those refecticus ave taien in a literal senje.

Tuespay, Nov.

On wedn. the Trustees

lege on Black heath, filled

Merchants of this City. C.

John Morden.

His Majesty has been plesfed to appoint Hen. Hucri

fon, Eig; te be one of his Council at Virginia. P.

Thurid. night lat a fetter was lett at the Town-Clerks

at Exon, for the demand of the Chamber, to leave 200].

ata place appointed, or elie they would burn the Guild.

hail, &e. Thi.

Norwich, No~. 21. On mond. evening laf a letter was

stuck into the door of one of the Alderinen, threacii

burn his hou'e, the heuies of 10 o: her

17,

for Sir John Mordant’s Co}

up § Vacancies with deci

3 fe 1

4 Le ink 1f Moon a be Oo)

we wv

ng to

e } 1

id the Worke

9 a

houses, if he aa not within a weck con 7! i the

terms of the said letter. A reward of 179 !. is ercered

for discoverng the peron. Veiterday another hor-

rid Ietrer was ent tw) John P Nl, Bogs Mayor, threctuing

to burn him, and the wicele Cus Lid

Yesterday in the Courtoi Arches, we hear, a Probat

of the Wili cf Sir Joh. Cuaplir, Bar. was deereed to the

Lady Chaplin, as joie Executrix and Residuary Lega-

tee. Th:d

Our Court has received the ogreeable news of the King

of truiia’s reconciliation to his Son the Prince Roval, at

the interceflon of Court Giumaow, Prime Minister of

Prufiiu DP.

Lait week died at Lynn Regis, in Norfolk, Mrs. Mary

Beal, 76, who has, by her

will, left 401. a piece to 100 of the poor Women of the

said parish, and a mourning gown and petticoat to cach

of them, in which they are to follow her corpie to the

grave. DF. — A better instance of chaiii, this, thas

leaving money to Ho p:ta’s.

WEDNESDAY

a maiden Gentiewoinan of

On faturday last David Polhill, of Chipted in +

ty of Kent, E‘a3 one of the Repreent ‘tive: in Parliament

for the city of Rochester, iid the King’s hard, on his

being appointed keeper of the records in the Tower af

London, in the rooin of Richard T sham, EB g3 deceaied 3

and this week he enters upon that olice. D P.

tha coin

9°

on

ta

, . ° M4 » ah. Ban

From thy Pegajus iR G; ub fi tee

In our last, pag. i. cal. 3. 1. 326 read,

place. 1. 38. read, Fourthly. Pag.

Amsterdam Coffee-house.

We have received several Letters, some of rebuke, and some of advice, which we take very kindly of our Correspondents: and shall endeavour to shew our great regard

to them by our future conduct. ---To give notice irom

time to time of all the Papers we receive, would take up

~* (ud.

too much room; the number of them being fo great: 1! they

are left where we direct, they will certainly come to Our

hands. However, for the time to come, we fhal! menttun

the receipt of the most remarkable, Literary news from be

yond {ea would be very proper, if we could find room for

it. A weekly Catalogue of books is intended, in which

the productions of our Society will be marked wth ail

alterisk, eee The Criticism upon Ducx’s Poeins was re

[Page 3.]

ceived, and shall be printed as soon as it can conveniently be done. As to the Controversy between Dr. Frirxe and Mr. Lower, (if it can be call’d a Controverly, where only a challenge has been given on one side, and no answer on the other) our Society think it proper to wait a little

longer, before they concern themselves about it. “The two

Papers relating to Mr. PayLor $ Latin Speech, are too

long to be inserted: but the substance of them {hall in a lit-

tletime be faithfully publihed.

Upon reading the complaint against Mr. Quipxunce, for

his reflection upon Mr. Hoztman’s death, he said, That

since the reasonableneds of allegorical interpretation had been

fo well defended by our learned Brothei Woo.ston, and

fo well received by the polite part of the world, he much

wonder'd that a Person of such abilities as Tie Censor

seemed to be, should be fo serious and fo severe in his §

animadversions upon that reflection. That as he had feve-

ral times explained articles of news in a figurative fence,

when the literal seemed absurd or impossible, fo he thought

he had a right to have his own refic¢iions, in the like cir- |

That ¢o |

4

cumstances, interpreted in the same manner.

make an exit in the porch of the Church, is to die with

sentiments as near to those of the Members of the Church

gs pofible, without being one of them; ard therefore to

with, that a// Dissenters may be recovei cd in this mavne,

can certainly be no uncharitable wish = ‘This

Society approved.

To Mr. Stepuen Duck.

N ratling floors did late thy flail rebound ;

But Caroxuine now Richmond groves refound:

For scanty wages then thou threfh’dit the grain,

But now for house and pension beat‘it thy brain.

Should hungry Poets at thy fortune rail,

Lay down thy quill, andat’em with thy flail.

But if too meek, thou’rt loath to knock ’em down,

Then, prithce SrerHEen, lend them hilfa crown.

This, for the present 5 but if kinder itill,

Thou’dft have the wretches eat and drink their fill,

Thy bara religns there may their hands supply

That kind support, which here their heads deny.

An EPIGRAM.

*7=*1S no hard task the reason to assign,

* Why fool and knave in C ’s action join :

Full of himéelf, half way he never itops ;

His fops are villains, and his villains fops.

answer the

Bavius.

eres ~~

Edirturgh, Nov.17. We fee here published a pastoral,

in imitation of Virgil’s firit eclogue, representing the tran-

quillity of the Highlands, inferiped to his excellency Ge-

neral Wade, onaccount of the services he has done there,

which meets with good reception. C. 24.

Dublin,y Now rt. Last week died at Kilkenny, the Rev.

Dr. Andrews, Vicar General of the Dircefe of Oflory ;

he had several great livings, in the gitt of the Bp. of

Offory. C. 19.

Nov. 14. We have received this further account of the

murder of Lieut. S. Leger and his Wile, at Biilyvohalane,

in the County of Cork, by his 3 servants, ‘Tim. Croneen,

Barth. Holly, and Joan Condon. ‘The 4th at night they

came into the room, Tim. Croneen clapt a pistol to the

Lieut. head, and shot hia; which awaking his wile,

Holly itabi’d her 7 or 8 times through the body with a

bayonet, the maid, Joan Condon, holding the candle all

the while. Croncea tainking them both dead, took his

Matter’s watch and purse. Holly claimed his propor-

tion of the money, which Croueen refused till they went

off, according to the agreement. Holly reiufing to go

off with him, Croncen took up a hatchet, and wounded

Holly twice 3 on which Holly got held of Croseen, but

not being able to hold him by lots of blood, on the blow

he had received, got fromhim, and ilruck him twice with

a bayonet 5 after which, he made off. ——— This disco-

Very was made upon oath by the servant maid, upon he

being apprehended. She is now in irons in the goal of

the County of Cork. Holly is noz dead, as was reported,

ut was expected to be brought to goal the gth instant.

P. —— Holly went to bed, on which Croncen tearing he

Would discover him, fell on him in his bed, and with a

hatchet and bayonet, after much refi.tance and itruggling,

killed him, and then made off. C. DP. D F. 21.

Holles. C. D if

Nov. 19. We hear that Croneen was taken on board a

Snow going to Spain, and has confessed the fact, and is

In Limerick goals 2 proclamation was issued by the Lords

Justices, offering 1001. reward for apprehending him.

C. &e. 24.

a

FOREIGN NEWS.

Tuursvay, No. ig.

! mometers,

his Eminency, that the Pope had given him anct'cr

Bishoprick in lieu of Beneventos and that having the h_-

nour to fand forw.rd ‘n the Hoy Fa her’s confidens » be

hed charged him io de'’ver ths message 5 and with:', ‘0

afure his Eminncy, that he might tae courage for tha

his atiair fiou'd toon be terminated to his ta isf €or,

and he might de-end upon it, the Pontifi was rexty to

giveghin proot or his cooiwifics. the Card. ave joy cy

gave the Mink 109 Pistoles who went directly trom him,

and made Card’. Fuai the fame compliment; and he like.

wife give him a god {um of monrcy, with which tle

Mork walked off 3’ ur, we hear, he bas ceen taker at Term.

C. WE. —— A iefercer, who brimys good news, is fo

welcome toa nicked Minister ix diftress, that be cafily im-

pojes upo. him, who imposed before upen all the evor/d.

Vicuna, Nov. 11. ¢ new levies are continued with

fuceers, ond Pris confirmed, that the Emperor has resolvec

to augment his troops with 15,000 men, durin: the win-

top. Wehave received uew advices from Constantinople,

chat the ate rebel on is entirely ceased, and that the rebe!

jolie. s hed obtained a grant, tending for the future to lef:

fen the au hority of the Grand Viziers, and to make other

alterations that they bad found several millions in the

hnoules of the Vizier, and the Vizier Aga, whom they haa

ttrangled, and had d:ftributed the money among the fo!-

diers, com, ofed of 40,000 Janiflaries, and 25,000 other

1100; §, 25 pieces of eight to each. “Tis atdea, in the mean

tin’, that the new Ministers had resolve4 to keep peace

with the Christians C. DF. EP. WE.

DP. SF. LE.

Leyden, Nov. 14. ‘Tis written from Moscow, that an

expicis arvived there from Derben', with an account that

the new Sophy, having made himiclr m fer of most of

the phees conquered by the Tu:ks in the last war, was

_one with his army for Baylor, to give battle to the

to an army, which lay under the cannon of thar City, in-

trench’d up to their chins bat fin ing them not inclin’d

to take the field, he deflroy'd all che Country reund them ;

and that his Persian Mfatefty has, ov the other fide,

tot a letter to the Rufiun General, who commands on

the troniers, to 2Mfure him, that he will taithtully observe

the Treities with the Court of Rua, and grant passports

ro all the Muicovite Merchants who thi! come to trade

within nis Dominions. DP. SF. LE. This Article

is in C. of fat. 21.

Anjperdam, Nov.15. Some letters from Berlin confirm,

that Lieus. Hit had oven exeeured at Kultrir, as had been

wrote tron Han'urgh. C. DP. DF. SF. LE.

Paris, Nov. 25. The day that the Royal Academy of

Sciewces had ther Assembly, M. de Foncenelle made the

elogiu's of Siznor Mucaldi and Signor Biuneini, 2 of their

members deceased and read some curious extac¢ts of Bian-

cini?> woiks. M. de Reaumur read a keéture upon Tes

and, afterwards prodaced in the Ailem!ly a

kind ot Thermometer of hisowninvention whichis much

more perf-ct than any hitherto estans. And M. Vu fay

read a lecture upon Proipoorus, and mamntamec, that uo:

on'y the stone of Bonogne, but amo! ail mineras, ‘vere

uminous, upon being cacined or dilloved, and atlerwards

expoied to the fun. C. P.

Frivay, Nov. 20.

Lisbon, Nov. 18. The King has appointed the Count de

Galvas b's Ambassador extraordinary to Rome, o compit-

mont the new Pope on his election, and to sign the treaty

of accommodation between the two Courts. DP.

SATURDAY, Nov. a1,

Vienna, Nov. 8. .t is rcpo.tet, that the Infant Don

Emanuel ot Portugal has obtaines the command ta chiet

of the 30,000 men which the Czirina is to jend as fuc-

cours to his Imperial Mijeity. DF. -— Nov.11. ’Tis

confirmed that the Prince Don En.uuel is to command in

chiet the 30,000 Russians, &c. — By our last accounts from

Conftaatinople, the cauf? of the late Resolution is ailizn’d

to he Grand Signor and Prime Vizier’s sudden retugn trom

the army, his fublime Highnets s notorious indolence in mi

litary affairs, the great exa€tions made on the p-ople, and

the money not apply’d to the proper ufe, but priva ely

fink in the Sultan s coffers. D P. ---- It was a 'e/s grie ance

to have the Sultan’s coffers thus fi /ed, than the Piime

Vizier's.

This day arrived the Mail from Holland.

Vieuna, Nov. 15 The Court received an express from

Paris, and ‘tis said, that by the dispatches he hath brought,

there are little hopes of being able to renew the negotia-

tions for an accommodation with Spain. £ P.

Seville, Nov. 3. The Emperor perfifts-in his refusal to

have Don Curlos introduc’d into Italy with 6000 Spani-

ards: {o that the expedition to Italy will go forward in the

(pring, but not without the aditance of all the allies of Se-

ville, since the Emperor has had time to make himself fo

flrone. WE. °

Mextz, Nov. 21. If an accommodation cannot be made

ful

25 Piaitres:

t-

hither, with her whole Court, from Ifmailow, and took

up her residence in the new Palace. (C.

Hague, Nov. 28. Private leticrs from Vienna inform

us, that all that has been buzz’d at Court concerning the

accession. of K. Auguitus (as Ele€tor of Soxony) to the

Treaty of Seville, was vanished into fmoak, upon the are

rival of some dispatcnes from the Count \, o Welzegg in

Poland, and others from the Court of Berlin. -—- At batt

we have received the acreeable news, that the King of

Prussia had fent the Generals Grumkow and Borck, &c.

to Kutlrin, to acquaint the Prince Royal with his Ma-

jeity’s intentions, and to require his corformity thereto.

Whatsoever the terms were in general, we are pretty well

assured the Gentlemen above carried to his Royal H gh-

ness the draught of an oath, for him to tranievibe and

fizn with his own hand, and afterwards to take in form,

to assure the King of his fidelity for the future; that the

Prince was allowed 24 hours to consider of the terms 3 and

that having answered, at the expiration of that time, that

he was ready to do whatever the King his Father come

manded him, the Governor of Kuttrin immediately re-

turn’d him his sword, and the ensigns of his Order, the

{tar whereof had been taken off his cloaths. This done,

the Privy Coun{llor was call d in, who read the oath, and

the Prince repeated and subscribed it, and it was fent by

an express to the King. Whereupon solemn thanks were

retura’d the sunday following for this happy reconcilia-

tion; and it + the general opinion, that his Royal High-

ness will soon appear at Court with greater luitre chan

over. #.

Tuzspay, Nov. 24.

This Day arri-’d a Mail from Fravee.

Paris, Nov.2g. Letters from Rome of the 8th infant

adviie, that the Pope being desirous to restrain Luxury as

Wellin this Capital as in the other cities of the Ecclefiatti-

cal State, had caused an edi& to be publish'’d, forbidding on

rigorous Penalties all Perf ons of eichar Sex or condition what-

foever, to wear gold or silver ftuffs, laces, fringes, or em-

broidry of vold and silver. EP. WE.

Wepnespvay, Nov. 25.

Se-il'e, No. 3. Uhe Court has been very attentive to

the progres of the Epidemick Dittemper which has rag’d

at Catizever ince the beginning of September faft, and

ti great pleasure, discover’d that it was moitly ow-

Ing to the exceilive rains which have fell lately, and the

careleiine!s of having a great well open, wherein all the Or-

dure of the town vas calt, which tainted the air by exha-

lation, since the filling un of which the Distemper begins

to ceule, and gives no further appiehenfions. D P.

On Tucidsy Stocks were,

have, Ww

South Sea 103 3 4tis, 27 Sths. South Sea Annuity 107

5 Sths, a3 pchs. Bank 143 1 4th, a3 8ths. India 1990

18th, 190a 18th. Three per Ceat. Annuity 97 3 4ths.

Miilion Bink 107 1 half. African go a sotrhit. York

Buildings 29 1 4th, a3 -%ths. Royal Affwance (1001.

pid in) gg. London ditto (13 !. paidia) 12 4 4th, a

3 8th. Bank Ctreulation gi. tos. South Sea Bonds 51.

t5a16s. Inciw dito 51 174188. Engith Copper

31. 105. Welth ditto 31. 3s.

Prices of Goods at Bear Key.

er Quarter per Quarter

Wheat ——25 to 23 Hog Peas —- 18 to 20 6

Rye 20 to 22 Boiling Peas— 22 to 26

darley —- 20 to 23 | Pale Male 24 to 23

Outs -~ 12 to 16 6 | Brown Mult—z0 to 24

Hor{e Beans 24 to 26 Tares —— 20 to 20

Coils 28s. to 30s. per Chaldron.

Hops 1729 — 2538. to 35s. per Hundred,

Hops 1730 — 40s. to 605s. per Hundred.

* Rape Seed rol. torr]. 10s. per Lait.

T St. Paul’s Coffee-house in St. Paul’s Church yard, on Tuesday

he 9 hot December next, will begia, as utual, a compicat

Courte ot the Theory of Ph. kj; as aio a compleat Course ot the

Practice ot Ph, sick. Dy W. Graeme, M.D. F.R.S. The bours of

reading ate ti Sin Eleven o'clock in the Forcooun to One. But those

Moors dhail be chang’d, it oil rs are More szreeable Co the majorir

ot the Students. Au Lflay on the Method o1 acquiring AnowleJge

in Thyikk, whe in is piven an Avounct of thele Courfee, may be

had at Mr. Gillives’s, Booklelic: in Llecthreet, over-again St. Dune

than’s Churci.

C hw way is publ {hed,

Vritten for the Enrertetiaenc vb Che Niage Dy Madam de Gomez,

Authborot LeBeale Atiimels, whercm isa Delciipaon of the Turks

an: le (fatis,

PERSIAN ANECDOTES, or, Secret Memoirs of che Court of

PERSIA. Conrasuing the Urftery of cho's ewo Hinftricus Hee

toes Sophy Himaa, fiinem’a the Great, and Tor, King of Ormus:

Voyeth i wiih wi sace unt 81 fb Rife ot € afleibis, or Persian se&

ot Mahometans; the Dethrons g Salian Bajezer, and Cruchies of hig

Son Stim, and the Ambaton, Cot 1 Death cf Mille,

Joven of ormuts Cole ted te ‘a che Vancan Library

o’ the Co, ne Genuine Wri-

v rie

acyy Of

tert,

ind de is Porte, a

4

nid Wial

nmanag u Ay)0u

277 ’ F! ’ this winter, between the Euiperor and Spaila, the French tags or Monteur cela Dore, {lador o: che Port, @s. and ‘

Id aw, Pele d ? F oy 4 x +) . ~ 7 J -* . 2.2 Ss ~

eherday arrived the Mails from France, Fianders, will invade Germany: and, on the other hand, there wiil Vu kith Aidliashe — ¢ Lord Bacon’s Head, withousl a

’ +} ) : — . + . , do tor Weayer bic Keron, a 20Yra Bacon ea } A 4

R x x and a eo be an army ot the Empire, formed upon the Rhine of Pamice tt, wees > a %

cme, Nov. 4. N.S. A certain Monk, of cuick thougnat:

Temp-¢-Bur.

55,020 men.

Of whom may be had,

Dr. WOOD's Anatomy ¥ i tuges of the Heart, and Circulttion

of che Blo d, as read beture dis Roya Couege of Phy Ucans, London.

[Page 4.]

and good assurance, dress'd himself the other day in the ha-

: . Lk: : Mownpbay, Nez. 23- Dr. WOOD's Anatomy ¥ i tuges of the Heart, and Circulttion NY

bit ef a Prelate, and went to Card. Cofcia Sy and Waoliper d 3 M: Low, Nov. 2. Oa the 28th pait the Carina returned of che Blo d, as read beture dis Roya Couege of Phy Ucans, Lundon, wv

The Course of Exchange.

Madrid 42 1 half

Bilboa-41 7 8ths

Leghorn 51 1 4th a 3 8ths

Genoa 54.1 8than 4th

Venice 48 7 8ths

Lisbon 5s. 5d. 3 4ths.

Porto gs: 5d 3 8ths

Dublin 11 3 4ths.

Amsterdam 34 9

Ditto at fight 346a7

Rotterdam 3410 ©

Antwerp 35 6

Hamburgh 33 34‘

Parisat fight 32 1 8th

Bourdeaux ditto 32

Cadiz 42 1 4th

ADVERTISEMENTS.

For che Berefht of Mr. CAREY.

By his Majesty’s Company of Comesians,

T the Theatre-Royal in Drury-Lane, on ‘huilday nexe, being

the Third Day of Decemder, wii oe pr.fented a Comeay y Cali'd

GREENWICH PARK,

With some add tional Songs proper ct» the Charafers.

Teo which will be added, a new Comical Tiapedy ot Hait an A&,

(never pesterm’s betoie) cali’d

Did you ever jee the Like? ?

Written in che Hurlothrumbeick Stile:

With fevers) Evterraiimenrs of Singing and i ancing ;

Particulariy a Disc gue of Mr Henry Pureeii’s, by Mr.Carey and

Mi's Rajtwr.

N. B. Mr.Carey humb'y op s jis Friend: will honour him with

their Preferice as ulval, cotwihQancug Bui ets readers a ampotli-

bie tor him to attend diem feweracy wii Vickers.

° 1

Tis Day ts publifien,

New SYSTEM «i Awivuaterick, ieorical and PraQical

Wherein the Science 0} Numeersis demonstrated ina Repular

Course t10m tg hr Puscipies, thro’ a i che Vaits asd Branch there-

of; ciiher known to the Ancients, of owing Lo che Improvements

Of (he Moderns) The Pradttce aod Appicatton to the Affairs of Lite

anu Commerce being al jolly explained; to esto make the while

a complete s¥svrim of Theowy, tor the Purposes of Men ct Sci-

ence; aod of PRaAcricr r Me. o- Business.

Py A LEXAN DEK MALCO jy A. i

Teacher of the MATHEMATICKS at Aberdeen.

Printed tor J] Osnonni and T. Loneman, in lacer-Nofter-

Row; F. ! ayram, aid E. cymon arcie k yai Exchange.

Where may be had, wrivten by be fame Cauthor,

A TREATISE ot Musick, Speculative, tradtical ana Historical ;

Containing an Explication oi the Phiiefophical aid Rational Gr unds

and Priucipies thereof; the Naure and Ofhce of the Scale «ft Mu

sick; the whole Art ot writing Noves, and the general Ruie ot Cum-

position: Wih a pisticular Agcoune of the Ancient Mutick, and a

Comparifon theeot with the Mocern.

ek publishen.

Cortecrion of VoxaGes, im: Pour Volumes in OSiavo ;

C siaiang,

I. Coptuin Wibttam Dampirrn’s VOYAGES round the World:

Describing parucuiany tne Coasts and Mlands in the Raft and Wet.

Indies. ‘Vhe South Sea Co fts or Chilt, Peru and Mexico. The

Countries oy Teorguin, Achin and Malacca. The Cape of Coud

kiope, New-iiolias Vy @ ce.

ll. The VOYAGLs «i Lionen Warrr: Giving an Account of

Hits bes ng lett on the Iitiinus of Aieciicu, amenylt cng Indians, an

vt their Treacment of him; with a parucular Detuitpuon o; the

Country, &c. Allo The Nauial iifto y et chose Parts. Ly a be!

low ot the Royal Society. And Davis's Expednion to the Goluen

Mine:.

lil, AVOYAGE round the World: Containi: xan Accouiit of

Cap. Damrizern’s Expedition toc the South Seas in che Ship Se

George swrh bisvanous Adventures and Engagements, @c. To, ¢-

ther with a Veyape ttom the Welt Coast of Mexicoro Gail Incia.

By W. Furxrii, Mate w Carr. Dampier.

IV. Capt. Cow ery s VOYAGE ruid che Globe.

V. Capt. SWanr’s | winey over tie lihmus of Darien, and Ex-

pedition wivo ine Souta Seas.

VI. Capt. Woon’s voyage ihrough che Streizhrts of Magellan.

Vil. Mi. Ropeats’s Adveucures and Suthiirgs am og the

Co fare of che Levene: bis Delgiiption cf tie Archipeiagu-iflanus,

Ce.

Liluftrated with Maps and Draughs: Also several Birds, Fithes,

God Piauts, not found in this Paice or the World; cusiwufly Lnyra-

ven on Coy pei- Plates.

Printed tor'JaMes and Joun Kyarrox, ot the Crown

Paul’s Church Yard.

4

Mt Sts

Buk publihes,

In 2 Vols. 8v0o. Price bound to s.

THIRTY NINE SERMONS oy the late Rev. Jobu Cook,

A. M. Re&or of the United Patithes of Sc. George the Martyr,

and St. Mary Magdalen in Canterbury, and ot Mersham in Kent, and

one ot the fix Preachers of the Cathedral Churchot Cante- dary: From

the waavicrips Cofy, prepared by himielt tor the Press, (cheie being

feverai Copics of foune of the Sermons abroad in writing, tuft granted

ac the Request of the Counrels ot Coventry, and other Verfoss of Di-

Rin&ii nu) on the following Heaa and Occafios, wiz. Of Faish,

Of Happincfs. Of coming to Chrifi. Of Vanity. Of Righteom{ness, Tem

perance, and Fudgment to come. Cleannefsmiflaken. Of God's Omui -

Science. On i rayer, Of Friendship with God.- Of the Enmity of the

Devil. Of Refolation in Faith and bravlice. Of Proving and Fervfe-

wering. The Natwre of Cleauness, Naaman’s Care. Of Vision, Reve-

lation, and Repentance. Of Zealvhen commendable, When fawsy. Wire

Crown of Blijs and Glory. The Righteors Mans Reward. Toe i) ei

Man's Lot. The BieJedness of Monrning. The Biefrdness of Ateekme)s.

Mercy to the Merciful. Uf imrity in Heart. Of Loiding faft the Faith.

Godly Fear and Obedience. Of Covetoufne/s. Of the Savvatr S:o»

preferred. Of ae fisiom, The D fficuity of Salvation. On St. Peter's

Dmniai. On the Fifth of November, preached before che Lower Loute

ot Convocation, w! o requefied this Sermon to be printed.

Pruned by B.C. tr L.Ginuiver, at Homer's Head against st

Dunrflan’s Church in Fleet: ttree:.

—— oe =

LONDON: Printed by A. Moore, for Captain Guttiver, near the Temple, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in: As

Lately Publifped,

Beautifully printed fom the 2 Vols.in 4to with Improvements, on a fine,

Grad Fae, in two Pocket Vols. im Svo. Price Six Shillings

bouns,

POEMS by Autan Ramsay.

Let them cen{ure what care I,

The herd of Criticks I d-fy:

No, no, the Fair, the Gay, the Young

Govern the numbers of my Song:

All that they approve is jweet,

nd all is sense that they repeat.

- dine, Prior from Anacreon.

Printed for J. Clark in Duck-lane; Weaver Bickerton without

Temple-Larr; A. Millamagainst Sr, Clements Church in the Strand 5

F. Couan at the Middle Temple-gate, Fleet freer; R. Willock in

Cornhill, and S.Valmer and J. Huggonfon, Printers 1n Bartho.omew

Clie.

BOOKS printed for Joun BROTHERTON, at che Bible next the

Fieece Tavera in Cornhill.

Blair’s Sermons, 5 Vols.

Life or Ouver Cromwel

Gordon’s Geog. Grammar

B sleau Ocvie puetigue

Pilgrim’s Progress

Tales of the Fairies, 3 Vol.

Eni, lifh Tutor

Musical Dictionary

Shakelpear's Plays

Congreve's Works

Gatcth’s Ovid

Cambden’s Britannia

Burkit on the New Testamene

L’Kitrange’s Jolephus

Tillotion’s Works, 3 Volt.

Bacon’s Works, 4 Vols,

Lock’s Works, 3 Vol.

Oldenburgh oi Exchanges

Addison’s Warks, 4 Vols. 4to

Puffend ’s Law ot Nature

Bailey’s Uy dtionsr’, tel.

Wood's Inttitutes, tole

Carckas’s Rates, tule Boyes’s Teiemachus |

Steveus’s Spanish Dictionary Me'ge’s State o1 Britain.

With Variety of single Pays and Parnphlets.

RUE CHRISTIANITY ,yfrom the frit peaking ot Chil-

dren, unulth:y come to the Holy Communion, I. Lessons eid

Prayers fitted to the Underftanaing o: litue Children. IL. The plain

Substance o1 the Churcy Catechiiim, and Prayers, and the weakelt ot

riper Years) [1l, An Expotitern of the Church Cate.uim, made

plain to Vilgat Cipacities; and Prayers t-ken outcf che Common

Pocyer and expiairea. LV. A piain Expotition of the Orders oi

madonand the holy Cohhmunion: Alo a Discourie of Con-

tirma.ion: shewing the Divine Tniticution of it, and the Honuur

due to it. By To. GoLEBATCH; a Presby:er of che Church ot

England.

Printed for Lawton Gilliver at Homer's Head in Fleet-street.

Where may be had, just Published,

An APPEAL w che genuine Recorcs and Testimonies of Heathen

and Jewish Writers, the Truth of the Chriflian Religion and its pri-

micive Doétrues.

WO at

Sana

The belt Warer in the Worn,

So called by those who have experienced it to be fo, for the Ircn,

or any lick ng Womsonrs,

T hath been taken mwardly tor the tine’s-Evin. fs is good

to cure dure Byes, of any other Sores, Uleers, or Fifkula’s; ic has

piferved several from having cheir Limbs cut off, when all other

meaus have taned.

The Price on the Bottle, One Shilling and Six Pence.

It is cobe fold at Mfr. Goudge’s, at the Calle in Westminster- Hall ;

fre Radford s Toy Shop, atthe Rote and Crawa over-against S:. Cle-

men’s Church Yard in the Strand, near Arundel Street Eud, and

at Mrs. Raw’s at che Nerib-Busrace of the Royal Exchange, ever-

against B artholomew -Lane.

The Original, Ineftimable, Angeiical EleQuary,

Being, a speedy Cure for Covghs, Colds, Afthma’s, ltificks, Whee-

ziigs, ‘ithouse Breathings, and shoreneis of Breath.

Preparation, not only tu be had in esteem ivom che great Skill

A of ali medicinal Compotiten, but aifo trom the Choiceness of

its Inzred ents, every ore of themcontibuting, by their particular

Virtues, to make it the most etfeQuil Medicine in the whole Re-

publck et Physick. It daily overcomes ihe mot gioundec Coughs,

cho’ or never fo long thandirg, and perfect y cures them ina very

liccle ‘Lime; it’s found co te the molt fure Fielp» and the only Me-

dicine in the World, tor old Consumptions, Puficks, Colds, Whec-

zings, Afthma’s, shortness of Breath, ard all other Diseases ot the

Breast and Lungs, restoring those that are leit off by hyficians, ree

maiming in uccer Despair undet the Burchen of chetr miserable Lives.

It diflolves congealed Phiegm in the Thorax 5 takes away the tick-

ling in the Aipera Arterea; heals Kawness and Soreness of the

Lungs, Breast and Stomach, causing ealy Expectorations cures vehe-

ment Catarrhs, Distiliation of Rheum, and ali Fluxes vf Humours.

falling upon any of the Noble Parcs. It gives imineaaie Reliet as

fon as taken, in the fevereft of Cov ghing, and fo pericGly trees the

Patient at once. _ .

1. isto be had at Mr. Parker's, at his House in Salisbury-Court:

and if requesteds will be brought to any Person by the Haw ker who

fells his Penny Poff. "Tis allo fold ac Mr. R botham’s foy-hhop,

next the Grid Iron, Whitechappel Bars; aud at Mr. Neal's Toy-,

shop, over-against the Whire Earc tin, to the Borougin of Southwark

Ac One Shilling a Pot, with Directions.

For the Benefit of those Persons who are afflicted with the

DROPSY,

Elizabeth Knoll, who lives next Door to tle Baker and

Bosi.t in Middle-Street, Clorh-Pair, ncar Wen-Smith-

TLLTL continues to porform grat Cures in the said

Diflemper, on both Sexes, and all Agcs.

N.B. An Account may be had of icve al Cures at the

Ploee aforesaid.

Cis Day is publishen,

N°. FV, Of the General History of Painting,

in Quarto,

By S. PALMER, Printer,

Printed for the Author at hs Printing-House in Barthes

lomew. Close,

Where may be had Numb I. II. and IIL,

This Number contains (among ether Things) Memoirs of the

Learned FROBEN, Printer at t3ssits oi Jonocus Kapius

Ascenstus, at! yous Likewifean Account of the fit Print.

ing at ConsrTanc.vorre and Saroyxica above .o9 years

firce, as allo the A fio. y of PorxcLor Woxks, ee,

N. B. Numb. V and VI concludes the &-? Volume. and

makes an entire Work, Tiie Soni bulime is o! a diffe.

ren: nature, contiining the Practical Art of Pristing

and will be put to Press when the firf® Volume ay

finish’d; which wili be as soon as possible,

Dr. GODFREY’s General Cordial,

So universally approved of for the Cholck, and all manppr o

Pains in the Bowe's, Fiuxes, Fevers, Small-Pox, M ate

Rhe:matisms, and Refleffnets in Men, Wimen, and C il

ren, and particularly for feweral A:lments sici.ent to CLilg.

—. women, and Relief ef young Children in breeding they

Ye

Spe >

Le, 2 Wu

i 4: CA pone

OA Atif

\ hake, fe

S fold in most Citicé, Boroyst,

and Ma ket-Towns throushoug

Great-Britain and Ireland, and in mog

publick Streets in London; remov'd

trom Hunfdon to Broxborn in Hertford.

' a / Wy fh re: And tor the Conveniency of fup-

\i ‘eveligtl plying all those parts, there are eitae

Nd bish:d by me BENJAMIN

GODFREY theft iollowing \ehole-

sale Warehousés, viz.

John Wetilake’s in Queen-street, Brifols

W Niam Fu ly’s, Diitiller, ar the Black Prince, in the

Market-Plie+, in the City of Norwich. "

Peter Lead. ater’s, Distiller, in Weft Chester;

Mr. Putron’s, Bookseller, on the Bridge at Newcastle

npoa Tyne s

Mr, Procke’s, Distiller, on the Blind-key, Dublin,

_ As alo atm Original Warehou®, facing Angel-Alley, in

Dithopfate Sereet, without Bishopfeate, London

oe rep table Shop-keeper in any City, Borough, 1

Market-Tows, where this Med.cine ‘s not already fold, my

ostupply’d at amy of the fhid Warc-houses wits good Abe

lowance

N.B. The Publick are desircd to take Notice, (to prevent

heaing im posed on) that there is 2n ill minded Perton wha

connrerfe:ts the said Medicine, and puts the Title of Ged-

frey’s Cordial on the top of che Bottles, and in his Bills given

with the Bottles, he ellis it 7le GENERAL COR-

DIAL, and does not put the Persons Name wio p:cprres

it; but as this Counterfir Maker is now foun) out by his

own Confession, he and his Sellers will be prosecuted as the

Law dirve&ts, ONE oi the unfair Scllers of the sham Medicine

without the Makers Nam: who prepaes it, 1S 2t a Suver

Smith’s near Lombard Street, another is ata Checikmongsrs

acing De.vonshire Squire in Bishopfyate Street. But to

prevent the Buyers from being impos’d on, Ihave pit my

Christian Name on thé Top of each Bottle, as in ts

Marzin, which is prepared ;

By me Benjamin Godfrey, M. D.

The price of each Botte is 6d.

The Ceelefiial Anodyne Tinfiure: Or, The Great Puin-,

Ecfing Medicine,

Am’d and approv’d of for its wome

de:ful and never-failing Srcccts, 19

giving immediate Ease and Relief im all

manner of Pains, either inward of outs

wad, and is the most certain Reme’y in

he World for a fure and fpsedy Cure

of the Cholick, and expelling Wonds

Gripes and Pains in the Stomach, te

Pleurify, flitches or pains in the fide, back, loins, or any

other parts Khemnatck Adments, which canie pan and

dolor. Ic hath given 63/2 to a Miracle, when all othe Re

nedics have fail’d; Io the Cravel and Stone in the Kin

neys, it gives ease forthwith, and b:ings them away to Ac*

nation, It also fecilitates and caufis a fpesdy Deuvery

in Chid-irch. “Lis no Qoack triting thing to allure the

World with, but a real end well-experiene'd M dicine, not

a€ting by Seupiiggt 1 (aS Opiates) but by a firend!, ba

fumick, and futile Nature, pacifying the moit fiverc and

terrile rickng pains, and carries off the Canto, not oY

’ iation, by Urine, or breaking Min’.

purging, but bv Tranfpt Vins

‘ami ufd ouvwwdy

No Family oughe to be without it; and

curcs Swellings, Aches, Pains, Numbne's cr Werncis ut

the Joints; “tis cxcell.nt for Cremps, and all ofhcr 22-8

1 al ;

[avcntis, effing Wonders in Agucs, Fevirs, smaiie

sox, &c. ql

, a is fod onty by Mr. PARAIR, Fu:nicrs at 1's

House in Salisbury-Court, or by such persons as het ée

red pute, at Livhteen-ponee a bottle, with printe! Directions;

and, if requested, will he brought to any person, by the Hawker who sells his Penny Port.

Note, 'Tis seal’d as above, to prevent Counterfeits.

LONDON: Printed by A. Moore, for Captain Gulliver, near the Temple, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in: As also at the Rainbow Coffee-House in Cornhill, and John’s Coffee-House in Sheer-Lane, near Temple-Bar. [Price Two Pence.]

