The Grub-street Journal.

Numb. 45.

Thursday, NOVEMBER 12, 1730.

$i quid inexperium [cane committis, 8 audes

Personam formare novam, servetur ad imum

Qualis ab sucepto procefferit, &P fibi conftet.

Hor. de Art Poet.

O2. 15, 1739.

Ge Mr. Bavius, Secretary to the Grubean Society.

N my laf I went thro’ the charatter of

) Hudibras, as it is drawn in the first

Canto. This charaéter of the Knight is

immediately followed by that of his

horse; which is as consistent as that of

any person in the poem. The gallant

flecd now under our consideration, seems

no less extraordinary in his way than his master. He was

snealy-mouth’d, wall-ey’d,. flow, reftiff, gall’d, lean, and

had a long tail, draggiing in the dirt. Our Author com-

pares him humorously to Julius Cafar’s, which, accord-

ing to Suetonius, bad fect almeft like a man, the hoof be-

ing divided, as it were, into toes.

———— Czfar’s horse, who, as fame goes,

Had corns upon his feet and toes,

Was not by half fo tender hooft,

Nor trod upon the ground {o soft.

And as that Beast would !.neel and ftoop,

(Some write) to take his Rider up :

So Hudibras’s, ’tis well known,

Would often do to fet him down.

This beautiful character is kept up thro’ the whole poem:

thus at the endof the fame Canto we have,

This said, as yerst the Phrygian Knighe,

So ours, with rufty steel did imite

His Trojan horse, and juit as much

He mended pace upon the touch 3;

But from his empty itomach groan’d,

Juit as that hollow beast did found ;

And angry answer'’d trom behind,

With brandish’d tail and blaft of wind.

And in the second Canto we are told that the Knight |

weeee stopp'd his wis/ing feed,

I come now to the Squire, who was one of the gifted Tay-

lors of those days. He as much detpifed human learning,

as the Knight admired it: being guided only by the New

Light; which our Author observes

Is a dark-lanthorn of the {pirit,

Which none fee by, but those who bear it,

The Poet having drawn these chiratters,: enters upon the

action of his Poem; which begins with the description of

a Bear-baiting. The whole populace of a town in the

welt were gather’d together on this occasion: whom our

Knight thought himself obliged, both in honour and

conscience, to endeavour to difperie. Before he undertakes

this, he explains his intention in a learned discourse to the |

Squire. He is persuaded that some eccu/t design is con-

cealed under the pretence of Bear-baiting. He is satisfied

there can be no sufficient reason for a combat between

cafts :

They fight for no espoused cause,

Frail Privilege, Fundamental Laws,

or fora thorough Reformation,

Nor Covenant, nor Protestation,

Nor Liberty of Consciences,

or Lords and Commons Ordinances.

He observes justly, that the occasion of their quarrel could

hot be the worship of Mankind, for notwithstanding Men

ave frequently killed one another about the worship of

afts 5 yet

No Beast ever was {0 flight,

For Man, as for his God to fighe.

ey have more wit, alas! and know

hemselves and us better than fo.

He Concludes, that this Antichriftign Game mat have |

arisen from that cruel Persecution, when the Heathens used

to few up the Christians in the dkins of Bears, and then

- bait them with dogs.

Ralpho agrees with his Master, that this Game is Anti-

christian, and proves it, according to his own principles :

the very name, he observes, is carna’, and of stan’s crea-

ting: not being to be found in all the Scripture. It

is a vile Assembly that cannot be prov’d by Scripture, any

more than Provincial, Claflick, and National Assemblies.

This {neer of Ralpho on the Presbyterian Assemblies, draws

an angry answer from the Knight; to which the Squire

replies with equal warmth, and afierts roundly, that Bear-

baiting in Gospel times, is full as lawful as any of them.

Here Hudibras pours forth his Logick to give hima full

confutation :

A just comparison still is

Of things eju/dem generis.

And then what Gexws rightly doth

Include and comprehend them both ?

If Animal, both of us may

As justly pass for Bears as they :

For we are Animals no less.

Altho’ of different /pesie/es.

But the fiel.l of battle being now not far off, the Knight is

unwilling to proceed any farther in the dispute, and pre-

pares himself for the fight.

I have now gone through the charaéters of the Knight

and Squire, as far as they are drawn in the first Canto.

But before I conclude this letter, I shall beg leave to, ob-

serve, that our Author seems to have had Sir Samuel Luke in

his eye, when he described Hudibras. Sir Samuel was a

Knight, and as eminent a Reformer as Sir J ---- G-—

is at present. Some have thought, with a good deal of rea-

fon, that an imperfeét verse, towards the end of this Can-

to, ought to be fll’d up with his name;

"Tis fung, there is a valiant Mamaluke

In foreign land, yclep’d [Sir Samuel Luke.J}

To whom we have been oft compar’d

For Person, Parts, Address and Beard ;

Both equally reputed stout,

And in the fame eause both have fought :

He oft in such attempts as these

Came off with glory and success,

It is affirmed also, that what Hudibras fays of himself in

the second Canto of the second part, was true of Sir Samuel

Luke, when a Prisoner in Exeter:

Have I (quoth he) been ta’en in fight,

And for fo many moons lain by’t 3

And when all other means did fail

Have been exchang’d for tubs of Ale?

If this assertion be true, I think it will be past all question,

that the person and character of Sir Samuel Luke were

described by our Author, under the feign’d name of Hudi-

bras. 1 intend, in my next, to consider the second Can-

to, and am, in the mean time,

Your very humble Servant, Mf. F.

The following SONG was fent us by an unknown

hand.

N Y Masters give ear, anda story you'll hear,

Of a fine raree fliow, and a garter ;

Ne’er was seen such a fight, since Tom Thumb was

a Knight,

In the days of our noble King Arthur.

I

2.

In the Abbey that day,

They did all things, but pray :

There were ale, cakes, and gin for the rabble,

Such doings unclean,

Ina place ne'er was seen

Since the time that old Paul’s was a flable.

3.

The way that they took

Was thro’ an old crooked nook $

In order they might not be seen a,

Long icaffolds had they,

To show them the way,

Where they ieidom or never had been a.

They all walkt, for the’ Prince reg

Did with riding dispenfe,

And with bathing, a troublesome riteaz *

For he knew "twas in vain,

They'd ne’er be washed clean,

No more than a Blackamoor white’a.

Tis true that they sale

A strong oath on a book,

In the times of old Popery known a3

To be true all their lives

To maids, widows and wives,

And all Ladies, excepting their own a,

6.

Which oath if they broke

Then the Sovereign's Cook,

Was to hack off the {pur of each Don a 3

But ‘tis well if he cou'd,

For his eyes must be good,

To fee that they had any ona.

Now this being done

They to dinner did run, ¢ _

With itomachs fo sharp and fo keen a5

As they used to do,

Without grace they fell too,

Ne’er minding their Chaplain the Dean a,

8.

To finith it all,

They at night had a ball,

Where the Ladies were dress’d to receive ’ém $

What further was done,

Is better unknown,

So its decent that there we should leave ’em.

It is no {mall grief to me, that I have drawn on me the

resentment of our ingenious Brother, Mr. Warp, whom [

take to be the Author of the off-hand Answer, printed in

Fog’s Journal of last faturday. I am heartily sorry, that

I have printed any thing, which may give offence to fo

eminent a Member of our Society; and declare, that B

think his ConcratuLtary Poem one of the most extra-

ordinary, which this age has produced. The following

lings are {o truly fublime, that I cannot forbear transcribing

them for the benefit of such of our gentle Readers as may

not be able to purchase the Poem itself.

Gard pow'rful Bacchus from his throne descend,

‘And visit Exg/and as a toaping friend,

Where all the modern bottle-race incline

To genuine Malt, instead of merdid Wine,

With your rich amber would he oil his CuaPs,

And for the Barly-mow, renounce his Grapes,

Confefs his tuns, wherein he shows his Wine,

To be but runlets, if compar’d tothine,

Bow down his proud divinity to thee,

And own your Lorpsktr more a “¥ than Hej

Or, should he, now his fruitful vin¥s are press’d,

His vats replenish’d, and his slaves at rest,

Upon a Ma/m/fey-butt, thro? Lowdon ride,

Guarded by Vintzers, in their liv’ry-pride,

The God, amidit his Bacchanals mult halt,

Beg pardon for his bold pretumptuous fault,

And wave his Crown of Grapes, to you, Great Kise

of Matr. ?

LONDON.

C. Courant.

P. Post Boy.

D.P. Daily Post.

D.J. Daily Journal.

K.P. Evening Post.

S.J. S. James's Even. Post.

W.E. Whitehall Even. Po

L.E. London Even. Pest.

L.J. London Journal,

F. Fog’s Journal.

Cr. Craftsman.

Un. Sp. Univer/al Spateter.

Thursday, Nov. 5.

We hear that the Government hath received advice of his Majesty’s Snow, the Happy, having taken a Spanish Pyrate, near the Bahama Islands. C.

The Directors of the Bank have appointed a Committee for receiving proposals from workmen, for building them

[Page 2.]

#h hou, on the estate they lately purchased in Threadneedles

fireet. Jdid.

Yesterday morning the Earl of March, eldest Son to his

Grace the Duke of Richmond, died at his Gracs’s house in

Privyegarder, to the greatfprief of that noble family. Ibid.

: DP. ‘

The {ame day an express arrived from Holland, from the

R. Hon. the Ear] of Chesterfield, with some dispatches to

my Lord Harrington, of importance. Ibid.

Yesterday morning Mr. Holland, a very eminent Apo-

thecary, hanged himself at his house in King-street, St.

James's, being under some disconéent of mind. P, King-

Areet, Westminster. E P. I worder the Apothecary

would chufe to dye by a pauitry anodyne necklace, value 4d.

evben there was (no doubt) fo much poison ready prepared

in bis foop.

On ‘monday night last, several persons were robbed be=

tween Kingston-bridge and Kingston-town, by 2 highway-

men, well mounted, who took from them to the va'ue

of 30]. and rode off with their booty through Kingston.

. SF.

” AZ write from Norfolk, that the R.Hon Sir Robert

Walpole keeps open house for all comers and goers, at his

feat in Houghton; that the people resort thither in such

numbers, that its computed his expences amount to near

1goo!.a week. DP. EP. LE. WE. Was

this Princely hospitality continued for one years a Phito-

math. of our Society, assures me, from bis great skill in

sumbers, that the jum would be found to amount to 78,0001.

But among all the comers and goers, I don’t hear of one

fingie Grubean's being amongst them, though most of ‘em

may frequently want a dinner.

Lait iueiday in the atterncon, Mr. Samuel Hooke, a

Master Piaifierer in White-fryers, fell from a house two

stories high. upon Puddle-dock-hill, and fraétured his fcull

He had the like mistortune about four years aro. D F.

E P. —— J would advise this Plaiffe er. for the fu

ture. to wear a head piece otherwise he may have the like

misforture about 4 ears hence.

L.ft isturdey ded in Swallow-street, Mrs. Anne Bathe’,

ReliG& of James Bathel, Esq; by her death a jo‘nrure ot

65.1. per annum devolves 1o ber kinswoman, Mis. Mar-

thaBath). DF. 25°91. LE. P.

We hear trom Bury St.Edmond’s, that Dr. Clopton an

eminent Physician of that place, died there the «' ft of O&.

last, and by his wil! has disposed of upwards of 79.01. to

charitableuks. SF. WE.

Fripay, Nov. 6.

Yesterday the Ambassador ot Tripoly had a private au-

Bience ot his Majesty, and delivered his Irtrers of credence ,

be was introduced by the R. Hon. the Lora Harrington,

and con uéted by Sir Clement Cotterc!; he had also a prie

vate audience ot the Queen, and his Royal Highnets the

Prince. C.

Yesterdsy being the anniversary of the powder plot,

the R. Hon. the Lord Mayor, accompanied by several ot

the Aldermen, with fev ral ot the livery companies of the

City, preceded by the City musick, went in great state to

St. Paul’s, and heard an exccilent sermon preached by the

Rev. My. Cifton, and afterwards returned in great fate

to dinner at Fishmongersehall. C.

Some ot the populace, altogether without his Lordship’s

privity, but as we hear, much to his displeasure, had

planted several patereroes, and fired them over-against the

fout gate of the Church, when the Lord Mayor was

conting out, after divine service was over. DP.

Yesterday the Son of the L. Viscount Grimston was mar-

ri¢d to Miss Lovel of Coleman-street Jdid.

We hear from Oxford, that the Rev. Mr. Archdeacon

Stubbs having presented a valuable collection of MSS. to

that University; weete by Sir H. Spelman, and M. Jeremy

Stevens, in defence of our Monarchy, Hierarchy, &c. they

have been kindly received, and are handsome ly bound up

for their better preservation in the Bodleian Jibrary. P.

Yesterday Francis Sanders, Robert Taylor, and one

White, were committed to Newgate by Justice Midford,

on the information of one Rowland Jones, a contederate

of theirs, for fevera] street-robberices. DP. D F.

Orders have been fent to Gibraltar, to discharge all the

transports, except such as may be requisite tor tran{port-

ing the soldiers ordered to Jamaica. D Ff.

| Saturvay, Nov. 7.

Mr. Booth is very much recovered from his late indif-

potition, and, we hear, that his Physicians are of opinion,

that he may be able to appear again on the stage this

wioter. C. ‘

Yesterday morning, about ¢ 0° clock, a fire broke out

at a warehouse of a dry-cooper on Wapping-wal!, which

was occasioned by burning some ftaves, and the negligence

of some servants leaving their work, it fet fire to the

whole building; but, by timely afliftance, it was extin-

guithed without doing any turther damage, Ibid.

iefterday an Attorney was committed, by the Court

of “ommon-plkeas to the prison of the Fleet, for male

rattice. P.

Cambridge, Nov. 5. On tuefday last the Rev. Dr. Mawe

fon, adafter of Bennet College, and the Rev. Dr. Morgan,

Matter of Clare-hall, were nofitinated by the head¢ of the

Colleges; and yesterday Dr. Mawfon was choseo Vice-chan-

cellor of the University for the year ensuing. did.

¥Vefterday articles of the peace were iworn co by Sir

John Shadwell, against Collonel On‘low, for affiulting him

at the Bank of England last farurdry. DF.

On thurfday night Sir Fobn Gonfon was insulted and

threatned in Fetter lane, by a soldier and another fellow

wearing a cropt hat on account of his committing to

Bridewell some time ago, a notorious pick-pocker; but

several of the mob, who were gathered about a bonetire,

came to Sir Fchn’s afliftance, and beat them very severe

ly, and would have laid ’em behind fo’ top of | the fire

if they had not prevented it by running away. DF C.

Its common for Fustices to appear, in order to dif

perfe mobs; but for mobs to come to the assistance of R.

Worshipful, is not fo common; howe er, I hepe a minute

of the good harmony which appeared at this jundture be-

twixt Sir John and the mob, will be enterd upon record.

On monday last his Grace the Duke ot Argyle kiis'd

the King’s hand at St James’s, on his being appointed

Governor and Captain of the Town of Portsmouth, &c.

in the room ot General Maccartney, deceased. Zdid.

Richard Davenant, Fig. who was some time tince em-

ployed in some tor i7n neg tiations, is to be fent to the

Court of Berlin. Ldid.

Monpay, Nov. g.

St. Famess, Now 3. fh King has been pleased to ap

point Walter Woriticy, 23 Sus Majesty’s retident with the

King oi Deamark = C. P.

Aslikewite James vac, Waldegrave, his Majesty’s Ambaf

{sdo: exmaordimary to the Court of kiance, to be ove of

the Gentlemen of iis Majestys cedecha ter, sa the room

of hisexcciency the Ej ut Chesterfiela. Jéid. D P.

The latrer ent of ft week a woman ont oat been

Cook atthe pufflea’ssisead cavern in Bloomstury, bemg dir-

order’d ia her senses, cut her owa throat, aaa aicd last 1a-

turday. Ibid.

We hear rrom Brifol, that twoof the incendiaries that

lately dent severa; thicatning letters 10 dificrent persons in

town, and aie thought ro be concerned mm buiniag Mi.

Packer’s house, having been taken, and have impeached 20

of their accomplices io its to be hoped the vil ons will

meet with a reward suitable to their deiigns § Ldid.

On faturday lafi Capt orumer iiving in stretton-

grounds, Westminster, commy into the Ciry to receive

his dividend at the South Sza tioute, dropt down dead fuc-

denly in Threadneeale-ftree:, oi afit of an apoplexy Ldid.

We have an ac ount trom Kovgron in 4eretorafpir,

that several robherics are committed thereabout 5; and on,

wedneiday laff one Sa uei Gr fiths who was going bomc

from Kin ton mark.1, was at caked vy two toot-pads,

and ro b'd of 10]. and beat and bruied im a barbarous

manner. P.

Laft week the Church-wardens of St. Andrew's Hoe

bourn gave 30 guineas to one of ther Beacle:, to chang:

into silver, tor paying their poor, and the B adie gaieit to

a Watcha an to ger it changed, who went off with rh

whole, and has nor Seen since bra ¢d of. DP. ——- The

Watchman was certainl in the rizhts it being an oppo:-

tunity (no doubt) he had watched for a loug time.

Tuespay, No. 3.

Yeflterday Sir Richard Brocas, late Lord Mayor, re-

moved from Gold{miths-hall to his house in Broad-

street. C.

On fatarday last Sir Jacob Ackworth, Kt. Surveyor of

his Majesty’s navy, accompanied with several of the Lords

of the admiralty, waited on his R. Highness the Duke,

and presented his Highness with a fine model of his Ma

jesty’s ship the Roya/ Oak, of 7oguns. Jdid.

The fame day his excellency Stephem Poyntz, Eig; Go-

vernor to his R. Highness the Duke, and the Hon. James

Pelham, Efg; Secretary to his Grace the Duke of Bolton,

Lord Chamberlain of his Majesty’s houshold, {urvey’d the

new apartments of his Highness, when a rich state, and

several fine furniture was put up by order of the great

wardrobe. Jdid.

On sunday night several persons in and about Covent-

garden, while the watchmen were from their stands, loft

the brais knockers from off their doors, by some villains

supposed to harbour thereabouts, and afterwards carried

away part of the iron-rails from an Apothecary’s in Tavi-

{tock-street, and went off undifcover’d. did.

The Taunton coach was robb’d on sunday night laf,

betwixt 6 and 7, on Hounslow-heath, by two highway-

men, who took from the passengers to the value of 150 |.

and made off with their booty. P. And from aCler-

gyman his gown and caflock. DP.— This looks jome-

thing like lay deprivation.

A few days since her Grace the Duchefs of Kent mif-

carried at her feat at Wrest, in Bedtordthire, but is now in

a tair way of recovery- P.

This morning her Grace the Duchefs of Rutland {fet

out for Belvoir Castle, in Rutlandshire. did.

Yesterday Mr. Justice Price arrived in towa fom Fex-

ley, im fdgretprdigire in perices bgalides |

On monday the 19th of O&. last, two persone, named

Bristow and Marlow, were apprehended at Old Windfo;

and, upon their own confession, were committed to Read.

ing goal, for entering the great pars at Windsor armed, and

killing deer there: they have since impeached several of

their associates for committing the fame disguised; amon

whom there are several fnbftantial farmers, and others, in

that neighbourhood, who are all fled for the fame. Their

gang was fo large, that they were beginning to imjs:.

the Waltham Blacks; and, it is to be fear’d, would foom

have equall’d them in their villainics, had they not been

{o happily discover’'d. D fF.

"T'was reported at Bristol, that letters had been fent to

divers persons at Warminster, by the incendiaries, and thay

Mr. Spright’s house in Frome kad been*burnt by some per=

fons unknown. Ibid.

The fire at Tiverton, which happen’d the if instant

consum’d about 20 houses, in which 2 or 3 persons pe

rished, and feyeral families were ruined. J4;2.

On faturday last his excellency Mr. Thom, Resident for

the Duke of Brunswick-Wolfenbuttel, arrived here for Ho}.

land. £E P.

Laft week George Wright, Efg; of the Middle-temple,

was {worn Recorder of Orford, in the County of Suffojk

in the room of Dudley North, Eig; deceased, late Mem

ber for the said Berough. did. '

On tunday Robert Paunceferd, E{q; Sollicitor-Genera}

to his Royal Highmefs the Prince of Wales, kifled their

Majesty’s hands for [upon] his being appointed one of his

Majesty’s Council learned in the law. did.

Laft week Air. Attorney-General moved the Court of

King’s Bench for a Certiorari, to remove the record of

the indi¢tment founded against Mr. Thomas Bath, late of

the City ot Bristol, Goldsmith, for counterfeiting the Spas

nish silver coin, current in this Kingdom; into that Court,

in order to an outlawry 5 he having Aled beyond {ea since

his being indigted, and the Court granted a writ of Cer.

tiorari accordingly. Ibid.

On iunday the 18th of October last, died at her lodg,

ings in Spring garden, Mrs. Turner, Reli€t of John Tur-

ner, Esq; Son to Sir Charles Turner, by his frit Wife, Sifter

to sir Rov. Walpole. did.

i aft faturday the Rev. Mr. Lloyd was married at the

Cathedral Church of Se. Paul’s, to a Lady of a very cone

fiderable tortune and family. The fame Gentleman ths

night before was attack’d by a single Highwayman, whe

tovk from him a guinea and an half, and some silver. -~

1 belie ¢ the fame Gentleman the night after, might jufain

a jecovd attacks but it might prove of more comfortable

tie portance.

On jaturday night last the Junior Duchefs of Marlba-

rough was taken with fits at the Opera-house in the Hays

market, and continues indisposed at Godolphin-house ncag

St. | smes’s Park. Jdid.

We have an account from Stroud-Water, in Gloucester

ihire, that the incendiaries la wednesday night had {et

fire to the feat of Fielding, Eig; about a mile from

tnt towns by Which abominable villaiuy the out-housesy

liicks cl corn, coach, &c. were consumed, and the house,

with its turniture greatly damaged, and, with much dif

hiculty escaped veing levelled with the re. WE.

That night a man came inte the town, and asked at

a publick houic, if he could have a bed? the Landladp

toia him, no 5 which he not being pleased with, tvld her,

that perh.ps, ina little time, fhe dhould want a bed to lic

on as weil as bimiclf: the woman, upon this expreihon,

had hina seized, and carrying him to the above Gentleman’s,

Who is a Justice of the Peace, the fumes burt out juit as

they came to the house, and the fellow in the midst of the

,urprize made his escape 5 but was afterwards retaken and

tent to Gloceiter Goal, under a very ilrong Guard, al

armed. did.

As he was going to the Justice’s, he said he should be re»

feued before he yot to the house; which intunates ties

Were others of the gaug near. Lbi4

WEDNESDAY, Nov. it.

St. Fames’s Nov. 7. This day M. de Thom, Envoy

extraordinary from the Duke of Wolfenbuttle, had his firit

private audience of his Majesty, and delivered his letters ot

Credence; he was introduced by the R. Hon. the Lord

Harrington, and conducied by Sir Clement Cotterell.

had after a private audience of the Queen, to which he was

introduced by the Earl of Grantham, her Majesty’s Lord

Chamberlain, and condu&ed by the Mailer of the ceremonies. C. P.

Monday night a fire happeved in the distill houte o

Justice Rolfe, in Bariiaiy threat, Southwark, by the flying

off, of the head of a dull, which alarmed the neighbourtic

very much 5 but by good manageuent the tame was {oon

extinguith’d, with ui doing any great damage. loa,

Yesterday the tamous Roger Jonnion, now a prucner rT

Newgate, brought a Hudeas Corpus, to be carry 'd to Ser.

jeants, Inn Chancery-Lane, in order to surrender himie®

before Justice Prouy 2, in discharge of his Bails but 62" it

| bg was quis ergy tg ths dep, de made his escape sre?

[Page 3.]

to

Officers who had him in charge, and rf down

Temple-Lane 3 but being pursued, he was retaken and carried back to his former lodging in Newgate. Jia. D.P.

We bear that an anonymous letter, demanding money,

and filled with menaces in case of refusal, has been fent to

g noble Lord in Surrey. did.

Yesterday the Lord Bathurst, with his Lady and fami-

ly, came from Cirencester to his Country feat at Riskins,

in Buckinghamshire, and is expetted at his house in St.

James’s-{quare this day. P.

Laft sunday died very rich, at her house in Chelsea, Mrs.

Tuckwell, Reli&t of Mr. ‘Tuckwell, formerly Fishmonger

to Queen Anne 5 and fhe has left most of her estate to

her Nephew, Myr. Turner, a young Gentleman of the

Temple, DP.

Boston in New-England, Of. '7. ‘The affemt'y have de-

termined not to compiv with che instruction ror fixing a

fettled annual salary on his excellency on adivision, Yeas

82, Noes 2,1 who notwithstanding stands high in their

Mtcem, and for whom they would do any thing in their

wer, which might not infringe their liberties in al!

things else a perfect harmony fubtifts betwixt the Gover-

nor and Assembly, the latter having voted oo], to he

idto the order of Francis Wilks, Eig, in London(whom

i continue their Agent ) as a reward for the good fere

yice be has done them.

Frem the Pegasus in Grub-street.

On the Canvipates for the Lauret. An Epicram.

- Royal praise be rhym’d by sucha ribald,

As fopling C-—.- r, or Attorrey T-— pv?

Let’s rather wait one year for better luck;

One year may make a singing Swan of Duck.

GreatG -—- ! such servants since thou well can’ft lack,

Oh! fave the Salary, and drink the Sack!

eae

Edinburgh, O&. 30. On wednesday last William Moore,

the house-breaker, was sentenced to be hanged ia the Grats-

market the 2d of December next. C. D F.

His excellency General Wade is expected in town this

night from the north did.

We hear from Stirlingshire, that on sabbath the 18ch

infant, one Alexander Buchanan, Miller at Fintry, after

hearing sermon in the Church [kirk] went aid itcle 23

fat sheep from one Mr. Johnson. Li:d. —— That jermoay

must needs be very edifying, which wil! i fluerce a mania

become a feeepficaler, I am afraid Mef. Fobn beth in-

finuated, that Dominion is founded in Grace.

Edinburgh, Nov. 3. We have now a certain prospect

ef the sick poor of this Nation, being taken care of in

the infirmary erected here; for by the account of the rile

and establishment of this hospital for sick poor, nothing

canbe more evident than that the iame is established

on such rules, and managed by such Gentlemen, as auit

prevent* the remoteit suspicion of the funds being milap-

plied. C.—— The funds must be very considerad € to main-

tain the sick poor of a whole nation in one infirmary in

Edinburgh s but bow must the sick poor be brought there?

eueen

FOREIGN NEWS.

THuurspay, Nov. 5.

Rome, Of. 21. N.>. On tunday sait « ard. Yorzia hada

long audience of the Pope, upon the affairs of the con-

gregation /uper nonnullis, ot which he is member. Fa her

Dominique, a crony of the late Popes is commited pri-

foner to St. Clement’s, upon the oath of Signior Calza-

miglia; that the said Father was the men that ‘old moit of

the plate and turniture of the apostolick palace C.

Leghorn, O@. 21. Signior Venerofo, who wis ient to

Corsica by the Republick of Genoa, in order to reduce

the rebels to their obedience by fair meas, is returned

without succeeding in his negociations; Signior Cimillo

Doria hath received new instructions and tull powers to

the fame purpose. The fame letters add, that the Rebels

Were more united than ever, and that they were well proe

vided with provisions and ammunition ot aliforts. C.

Paris, Nov. 4. The Chevalier de St. George, with

is two Sons, were at his Country feat of Albano,

Where they remark) was a great train of Noblemen, and

fo the Cardinals Bentivoglio, Lercari, and some others :

t the Chevalier and his family, were expected at Rome

the beginning of next month, as the fe lerters express it,

ing datedthe iSth ot O&. P. EP. SF.

The Duke and Duchefs of Buckingaam ate ft out from

als on their travels to Italy. did.

Petersburgh, Of. 8. They write trom Dertent, that

they had received a confirmation, that Prince Thamas had

already retaken part of the conquests mace by the Turks

mm Persia, and flatter’d himself with beung matter of all the

rest, before the Ottoman army could come np to Oppoic

him. That the Seraskier Ba‘la having reeafsembled the feat

tered troops of the Turkish army, deteated by Prince

Fhamas, had formed a body, with which bg we reued

3

te an advantageous post; and that [ the said ] Genéral had |

received orders from the Grand Seignor to fend him the

heads of some of the Baffa’s who had failed in their duty

in the late bartel with the Persians. DF. SF.

Vienna, O&. 28. Orders are fent to 28,000 men in th

Emperor hereditary Countries, to hold themselves in a con-

tinual readiness ro marchtoltaly. EP. WE.

Amsterdam, Nov. 10. Letters from Paris of the 3d in-

(tant advise, that the Marquefs de Caftelar, the Spanish Am-

baffador, had a {pecial charge given him to infift on the

firiét execution ot every article of the treaty of Seville.

SF. LP.

Fripvay, Nov. 6.

Rome, O&. 21. Cardinal Collicola died here on thurfday

night, aved about »o3 by his death there is a 3d cap va-

cant. Signor Mofca seems very confident that he shall have

one ot them, tho’ the Widow Albani makes great interest

for her second Son, who is but ' years old, there being

precedents for making Cardinals at that age, particulariy

Cardinal Maldachini, who was but 18 years old when he

died. C. P.

Ratisbon, Nov. 2. The Assembly of the Dyet is very nu

merou, and yet there is nothing done in it, fo that it may

be troy sic che Diet is haif dead. bid.

Triers, No.4. ‘here is much talk of a treaty of mar-

riage «tycen the Duke of Lorrain and the Emperor's el-

eit dauzhrer. Jdrd.

Rome, O4. 14. With great pleasure we hear that the

Farner Avina f the Buonfratelli, a confident of Cardina

Cofcia, isimprifoned at Naples, whith.r he went to take

refuge ?,

We hea. that Signor Murliani, late Governor of Loret-

to, is fled to Milan, being informed that Signor Barni,

Gov rno of M ccrata, was by order of the congregation

Juper nonnullis) vaming a rigorous process against him

ta: baving taken out of he holy house, adeal of old plate,

by or er ot the late Pope =‘ Zdid.

At fi» o’ clock on faturd.y night ‘aft, was seen in the

ait ‘our great bears, or piliars of fire, that very nuch tere

riflea this cry. Ibid.

The Counr Dominick Car: ena, being resolved to paf

three years a* his country fea", and not willing to leave his

Waite with her legs at liberty irs, fhe has chosen to pals

the time of hor widowhood in rhe nunnervot St. Ambr-fe

Ibid. - That Lady may (if foe bas a mind to it)

hace be legs at hderty in a nunnery, as well as ary

where else.

Saturpbay, Nov. 7.

Peri, O8.7- %.S) They tel us trom Spain, that the

vhica were aot expected at Carthagen,, till th

April, arcalread sarsived withthcir loading This

, (hey fee to own, can be of no advantage to the

Eu. Company trading to the South Seas 5 because as

the Marker of New Sp.in will be well stocked before the

Ayento Ship arrives. in all likelihood, the English cargo

wii uetie: at any higher price than o:dinarys for the Spa-

niards are now vrown fo fiugal, that they do not care to

pay much oney for whac they do not want: They reckon

the Galleons will return to Cadiz 6 months sooner than

they at frit exn: G&edthem P. S F.

We have tome letters now trom Berlin, that tell us, the

a («(hS

- e

ey

licved tor her Brother, is taken avain into favour. 16.WE.

The Lov!) Cavendish and a Scots Baronet, cailec Su Wir

liam Sioxweil, are juit arrived in town trom their tra-

vel. Ibid.

Vienna, O8 21. A report runs that the Duke of Litia,

the S anish Amwatladorat “he Court ot Moscow, will thort-

ly take a journey hither; upon which occasion, some ima

gine an accommotatien more advanred than is generally

clieved, However, no delay appears on the Emperor's

fide »n pom? of war. New comuniilions are daily diftri-

buted to the officers which are to commana in the addi

tional torces now railing. The Sieur de Glauchova, tm-

perial ‘.ourier, was dispatched with matters of great ime

portance to the Count de Kinski, at the Court of France;

and fiveral expresses coming in from Sa.ony, and other

parts of the Empire, occasioned the immediate dispatch of

of asimany, to carry the mperial answer DP. S F.

Monpayy, Nov. g.

Yeferday arrived the Mail due from Holland, and one

from France.

Mofeow OF. 20. N §. Count Ofterman has been de-

clare) ntemes: - seneral of the Czarina’s houshold. C. D F.

Petersburg, OF. 24. The officer that attendei Dona Ma

Nut, suianre of Portugal, to Riva, with a detachment of

D:agoons, returned hither yesterdiys that Prince made

sin. a present of a fine diamond ring, and gave him a let-

ter tor the General Count “tunich = Jéid.

Vienna, Nov. 1. An express ts arrived from Constanti-

nopl, ith tecters of the ¢th ot October, which advile,

oncaly to murmur against the Governmen:: that the next

day they took up arms, and obliged the Grand Signiar to

Kine of Prot a has suspended the prosecution against the

Prince his Son, at the instances made to hin trom the

Fimperor, the King ot Polan’, and the States General; and

that hts eldetl rae. Soll who wasdegraded tor hav-ng stol- |

== eer

strangle his Prime Vifier, the Capigi Aga, and ,

Bafhaw; that having afterwards demanded their bodiesg _

they hacked them in pieces, and caft them to the-dags, exe ~

cept that of the Captain Bafhaw, which his mother re- —

deemed by dint of gold: that uson the 2d of O&: those

rebels, not content with such a sacrifice, deposed the Grand?

Seignior, and fet up Sultan Muftapha’s eldest Son in his

room This Sultan Muftapha was deposed in 1703, and

his younger Brother Achmet (now deposed ) advanced to

the throne, The revolt of the Janizaries was not appealed

when theie letters came away. They add, that the news

of a second defeat of the Ottoman army by the Persians,

had occasioned the Janizaries to rebel, who demand a peace

with Prince Thamas; and fay, if they must have a war,

better have it with the Christians than with the Maffele

men. Jdid. P. DP.

The King of Sardinia has acquainted Count Daun, Gox

vernor of Milan, that he was resolved to contribute, as

much as lay in his power, to preserve]j the tranquillity of

Italy. JLbid.

Count Merci has caused the Garrisons of Porto Ercole,

and other places on that fide, to be reintorced. J6id.

Tuespay, Nov. to.

Veferday arrived the Mail due from Holland.

Rome, Of. 28. N. S. We are told, that the Pontiff

having fevt the Emperor a copy of the proceedings against

the Cardinals Cofcia and Fini, his Imperial Majesty has

assured his Holiness, that in cafe they were found guilty

of what was laid to their charge, he would not pretend

to {top the course of justice. These two Cardinals having

desired leave to go and {pend some time in the country,

were answered, that they had taken diversion enough im

the late Pontificate 5 aud that it was by no means propep

for them ‘te gonow. C.

Viena, Nov. 4. They write from Italy, that the greaé

Duke of Lufcany has paid in 300,000 florins to the Em-

peror’s military cheft. Jdid.

Hague, Oct. 27. The Prince of Orange, Stadholder of

Guelderland, &c. is expected here the beginning of next

month; and some fay, he will make an attempt to take

his place in the Council of State, as Stadholder of Gelder

land, Frieflland, &c. of which we should be curious ta

know the issue. P. I jee no great matter of cu-

riofity tx at, whether he jucceeds in bis attempt or not.

G odio, OF. 26. The following articles were debated

before the Senatus Confilium, by the King’s order, in the

conferences which began the 2oth init. viz.

1. * That as the general Dyet had broke twice fuccef-

‘ fively, which is without example, it is incumbent om

« them to find out means for remedying the fame, and ap-

* pointing a time for holding another Dyet.

2. *Asto what time the petty Dyet thall be held.

3. § That the Palatine of Lublin having accommodated

‘ his differences with the Pope’s Nuncio, his Embaily

© ough: at last to take plice for the good of the puplick.

4. ‘ That conferences being also to be held with the

‘ Ministers, in relation to the Constitution of the year1726,

‘ the time for them ought likewise to be fixed.

s. * That it is yet necessary to furnish 60,000 flering

‘ for finishing the fortifications of the caitle of Cracow,

‘which are much advanced, with the {mali fum of

‘ 129,000 florins, which have already been expended on

‘that work. D fF.

Count Welzcc, Ambassador of the Emperor, in an aue

dience which he had of his Polish Majesty, demanded of »

him pailage thro’ this Kingdom fer the 30,000 Russians,

that are to enter into the service of his Imperial Mase

jesty. bid.

Wepwesvay, Nov. 11.

Hague, 08.27. N.S. Extract of a private Leteer froma

Vienna, dated Ott. 17. N. S.

/ Houch the Imperial Ministers have not yet received any

iret advices to the purpose, yet it is generally believed

here, that the Perfiaus have retaken mof? of their coxguefto

from the Turks 5 and that both parties are ready to lifters

to proposals of peace, and even of alliance: For there isa

cereain Christian power, that labours to reconcile those Ma-

hometan Monarchs, avd unite their arms against the Ruf=

fians, to deprive them of their conquests upon the Ca/pian

Sea; either by that means to prevent the Czarina’s fendin

succours to the Emperors or perbaps to embroil the Russians

‘with the Court of Vienna, for not running in to their afm

fiftances or lastly, to obsige bis Imperial Majesty to fend

some troops ints Servia and Hungary, which are quite

drain'd of men, and would consequently be im danger, were

the Grand Seignior to declare war again? an Ally of big

Imperial Majesty. On the other band. we are new to learn

that yome trading Powers /wking with regret upon the good

harriony the; perceive between the Ruyzans and the Persians,

with whom they may in peaceable times fettle a prodigious

commerce, and carry their Merchandizes by the Wo ga

thar upon the 28th of Sepreniber last, the Janizaries began |

round Africa. P.

the Baltick Sea, and from thence to Germany, which 40x

give a mortal wound to the trade that is at present ve alt :

ov by the eufof Ormus, whence the goods of Perfix

for the mtu? part brought inte Burepe, by jaslirg, as

[Page 4.]

On Tuesday Stocks were,

South Sea 103 7 8ths, a4. South Sea Annuity 109 3

$ths, Bank 143 2 4th. India 190 1 half, a 5 8ths.

Three per Cent. Annuity 98 1 8th. Million Bank 107

1 hatf. rican 52. York Buildings 30. Royal Assurance

(1001. pid in) 93 5 8ths. London ditto (131. paid in)

32 3 8ths. Bank Circulation 51. 5s. South Sea Bonds

l. 17s. India ditto6l. English Copper 31. 17s. 6d.

elh ditto 31. gs.

Prices of Goods at Bear Key.

per Quarter per Quarter

Wheat ——2z2 to 26 Hog Peas ——- 15 to 16

Rye —— 12 to 13 Boiling Peaa—17 to 21

Barley — 11 to 16 Pale Malt —— 12 to 21

Oats — 8 to 12 6 | Brown Malt—o13 to 28

Horse Beans 15 to 21 Tares —~ 20 to 22

Coals 24s. to 25 s. 6d. per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 — 15s. to 20s. per Hundred.

Hops 1729 — 20s. to 35s. per Hundred.

Hops 1730 — 35s. to 70s. per Hundred.

Rape Seed 101. to 111. 10s. per Laft.

The Course of Exchange.

Madrid 42 1 half

Bilboa 41 7 8ths

Leghorn 511 4th

Genoa 54 1 4th

Venice 48 7 8ths

Lisbon 5 s. 5d. 7 8ths.

Porto 5s. ¢d. f 8th.

Dublin 11 1 4th.

mfterdam 34 8

Ditto at fight 34 6

Rotterdam 34.9

Antwerp 35 6

Hamburgh 33 2

Parisatfight32 1 4th

Bourdeaux ditto 321 8th

Cadiz 42 1 8th

ADVERTISEMENTS.

Mert week will be publided,

NU: IV. of the GeNERAL HistToxy cr PAINTING,

Pamer, Printer.

Pitted tor che Author, and fold at his Printing-House in Bartho-

lomew-clole.

Where may be had, Numb. 1, Il, and IIL.

The first Votume will be compleated very soon.

by S.

This Day is published,

In Three neat Pocket Volumes,

I:SCELLANIES in PROSE and VEKSE by the Rev- Dr.

Swirt, and Mr. Pope. °

[rinted tor B. Mote in Fleet-street; and fold by W. Bickerton

at Lord Bacon’s Head without Temple-Bar, and Lawton Gilliver,

at Homer’s kicas againift Sc. Dunstan’s Church, Fleet-street.

Where may be had,

1, A mew Edit. of the DuNcIAD, with some additional Notes and

Epigrams.

“ae An Author to be Ler.

(‘This Day is publisher,

Dedicated to Mrs. ExizasetuH Prarr, edeff Daughter of the late

Lord Chief Fuflice Prate,

DT) Art é@e Connoitre les Femmes, &» ,

HE Axvt of knowing WoMEN: Or, the Femare Sex difleMed;

in ataitful RevRESENTATION of the VinruEs and VILESs

under the tellowing rwency Heads, viz.

1. Geneva) Ideas concerning Women. 2. Of their Education. 3.

Of their Seli-Love 4. Oi the Lite they chufe. 5. Oi the Religion

acd Devotiono! Women. 6. Of Love and Jealousy. 7. Of Cont-

nence and Chastity. 8. Of Marriage. 9. Ot the Wii iand Learn-

h ,ingiof Women. 10. Of their keeping Se.rets. 11. of Beauty, Drefs

} and Fashions. 12. Of the Falshood aid Deceit of Women, 13. Of

their Calumny and DetraGion. 14. Ot thew Flattery and Dittimu-

Nation. 15. Of their Friendthip and Hatred. 16. O1 their Envy and

Malice. 17. Ot cheir Coveroufness and Prodigaliry. 18. Or their

Pride and Ostentation. 19. Of the Violence of their Pafhons, ao.

An Historical tiflertation concerning Aculery and Divoree.

What, ever since the Golden Age was done,

What Womanesind desires, and what They fhan};

Rages Passions, Pleafwres, impotence of Wil,

Shall this Satirical Collection fill,

i .

‘ Drypen’s JuvENatL

This Work was publish’d at the Hague jsft Year, under the feigned

m Name of the Chevalier Praxve AMoun; (but the real Author is

said to be a very celebrated Veer of Great- Britain) and is now faith-

fully translated trom che French Original, with Improvemenw.

by SPRING MACKY, Gent,

Printed and fold by E. Cunuu and W. Levenruarp, direct,

over-against K athérine-Street in che Strand, T. Payne at the Crown

A an Ivy-Lane, near Pacer-Nofter-Row, J. BROTHERTON next the

Fleece Tavern in Cornhill, and J. {AcKsow in Pall-Mall near Sr,

James's Palace. Price 45. in Calt, Plata Sound 3s. 6d.

RUE CHRISTIANITY, from the first {peaking ot Chil-

dren, until thry come to the Holy Communion. I. Lessons aitd

Prayers fitted co the Understanding ot little Children. IL. ‘U'he plain

Substance of che Church Catechism, and Prayers, and the weakest of

siper Years. fll, An Expoiition of the Chorch Catechiim, made

lain to vulgar Capacities; and Prayers taken out of the Common

rayet and eyplained. IV. A plain Exposition of the Orders of

Confirmation and the Holy Communion: Also a Discourse ef Con-

firmation: shewing the Divine Initicution of it, and the Honour

due to it. By THo. CovreBATCH, a Presbycer of the Church of

England.

Printed for Lawton Gilliver at Homer's [ead in Fleet-street.

‘ Where may be had, just Published,

} An APPEAL. co the gerine Records and Teltimonics of Heathen

and Jewish Ww iiters, the Truth of the Christian Religion and its pri-

mitive Doétrines.

This Day is published,

PROPOSAL Y

For Painvine by SuBSCRIPTION,

HE Necoriarions and Emsassizes of Sir THOMAS

R@E} Kur. Privy-Countellor to King CuAaves I]. and

Chanteilor of the most Noble Order of the GARTER. From the

Year 1620, w the Year 1644.. In which’ Time he was Embafla-

dor-Extraordinary trom King JAMES I. and King CuARLEs I. to

the Grand Signor, the Emperor, the Kings of Poland, Swedea, and

Denmark, aad to the Principal Ele&tors of the Empiie; us also to

the Dyet of Ratisbonne. Tae greatest Part designed by himielt to

be mace publick. To which wil! be added, many othe:s, which

he intended not to publish, as being of two privaie a Nature to be

made publickin Times o} Jealculy and Diftra&tion, Lnverfperted with

a large Account of the Fmbaffies of Sir Rosen ANsTRUTHER,

Sir JSAAC WAKg, Sir W1LLiaM BoswELL, Sir DuoLry CARLE-

Tox, the Lord Scupamone, the Earl of LeicestTer, the Mofte

learned and Kver-memorable Earl of ARUNDEL, and other Piinci-

pal Ministers of that Time. ‘To which are added, Authentick Ad-

vices, Original Powers and Instiuctions, Treaties ot Peace and ot

Commerce, and many Rare and Valuable Pieces, of great Ule to

clear up the History ot that Important Period. All {rom their Ori-

glual Letrers and Papers of State.

LETTERS, fays my Lord Bacon, written from wife Men, ares

of all the Words of Man, in my Fudgment, th: best; for they

ave more nawial tham Orations and public Speeches, and are

more advised than Conierences or present Speeshes. So again

Lerrers of Affairs from such as manage them, of are privy to

them, ave, of al: others, the best Instrucions for History, and te

a diligent Reader the bef? Histories in themselves.

Baconi Opera, Vol. Il. p-463- |

Sub titulo De Aug. Screatiar.

N.B. This Work, ’tiscomputed, will make five Volumes in Folio ;

and mo more than s00 will be printed, at 18 s. only each Volume ;

and tt Upwards of 400 be subscribed for, the WorK shall be render’d

{till cheaper co the Publick, and allowed for in she second Payment.

ProPOsALs are deliver'd gratis, cogether with some Account ot

the Worx, and a Specimen of a few of the Lerrens, by S.

RicHAXDson in Salisbury Court, Fieet Street, and $. PALMER and

J+ HuGconson in Barthoiomew Close; and by the ruilowing Bouk-

fellers; viz.

Mefl, Knaplock, Innys, and Rivington, in St. Paul's Church-yard ;

Mell. Bettesworth, and Hitch, in Pater-Noker Row; Mell. Favram,

Strahan, ‘Brotherton, Hinchcliffe, and Walthee, in Cornhill; Meff. Pem-

berton, Gofling, Woodward, Wotton, Clay, Brown, Gilliver, and Corgan,

near Temp'c Bar; Mell. King and Stagg, in Westminster Hall; Mr.

Clements, at Oxtord; Mr. Crownfield, at Cambridge 5 Mr. Leake, at

Bath 5 and Mr. Me Enen, at Edinburgh.

This Day cig§ Dublithed,

HinosopicAn Principles of MEDICINE,

PARTS. Containing,

I, A Demonstration of the General Laws of Gravity, with their

Effe&s upon Animal Bodies. II. The more particular Laws which

obtain in the Motiou and Secretion et the “cal Fluids, applied to

the principal Diseases and Ivregulaiities of the Animal Machine. III.

The Primary and Chief Incenticns ot Medicine in the Cure of Dii-

eafes, Probiematically proposed, and Mechanically resolved.

By THOMAS MORGAN, M.D.

The Second Edition, wich large Additiuns, relating to the Nature

and Manner of Animal Sveredions in general, with a particular Re-

gird to the Urinary Evacuations; in which the Bellinian Hypothefis

of Secietion is thewn to be talie and absurd, and inconfiflene with

the Appearamces of Nature, and all the Laws of Animal Motion,

Printed toy J. Osborn and T. LonaMAN in Pater-Noft r-Row.

Where may be had,

His Certection of Tracts relating to the Right o! Private

Judgment, the Suthciency of scripture, and the Terms ot Church

Communion upen Christian Prmeipies 5 occaitoued by* che late Trini-

tarman Coniroverty,

In THREE

This Day is published,

The Second Edition of

Pastoral Execy on the Death of Canisva, humbly inscribed

to the Hon. Col. Churchill.

She’s gone, and I thall fee thar Face no more,

But pine in Absence, and «ill Death adore :

When with cold Dew my tainting Brow is hung,

And my Eyes darken, trom my falt’ring Tongue

Her Name will issue in a teeble Moan,

And Love, with Fate, divide my dying Groan.

Young’s Revenge.

And this day at Noon vill be pnbiished,

MAINW AIR ING’S Welcome to Or HELIA, On his meeting her in the

Shades. Inscribed to che Hon, Mr. Mainwairing.

---- All things are but alcer’d, nothing dies,

And here, and there, th’imbody'd {pirit flies.

Dryd- Ovid.

Printed and fold by W. Trott, at the Seven Stars in Roffe!-Coure,

near Drury-Lane; A. Dodd at Temple-Bar; T. Aftiey io Sct. Paul’s

— yatd; E,. Nuce and E. Smith at the Royal-Exchange. Priee

6d. cach.

A

BOOKS printed for JouN BrorneRron, at the Bible next the

Fleece Tavern in Cornhill.

Blair’s Sermons, ¢ Vols,

Life of Oliver Cromwel

Gordon’s Geog. Grammar

Bonleau Oevre poetique

Pilgtim’s Progrets

Tales of the Fairies, 3 Vol,

English Tutor

Musical Dictionary

Shakelpear's Plays

Congreve’s Works

Garth’s Ovid

Cambden’s Brirannia

Burkit on the New Testamene

L’Etrange’s Josephus

Tillotfun’s Works, 3 Vols.

Bacon’s Works, 4 Vols.

Lock’s Works, 3 Vol.

Oldenburgh ot Exchanges

Addison’s Works, 4 Vols. qto

Puffendori’s Law oi Nature

Bailey’s Dictionary, ful,

W ood’s Institutes, tol.

Carckas’s Rates, fol. Boyer’s Telemachus

Stevens’s Spanish Diatonary Meige’s State ot Britain.

With Variety of fugle Plays and Pamphiets.

Avi etfad tt Blythe honfe, Planemerfrnisy,

vig advertise 1, that 4 Latin Grammar, publishea by Mr. c

was Nothing else than My new S.heme much defaced, po froin

printed; itis answered in an adve tiiemenr (by the Publisher. he

pote: the Author kpows better) that Ie is @ celledtion pe

Mr, Lowe owly, but from feweral other Learned Masters. 1c not from

fo; yet ie has nociing but what is in Mr. Lowe. anctfiadied hry be

mation of the Verb is from Mr. Lowe. Ard every thing else ta ——

the very Paradigms and Lifts,- --- Bat the Method ang Dire Sian

different. Only fo tar as co dishgure mine. ---- So that ig jis ‘more N “4

tural and Eafy. What! thouga imteiruptei with pores rath 4-

plexed by the mixture of iefs-nccellury with fundamencg| Piece a

Besides Mr. Lowe has no Projody im the New Siteme 24 S “ies

Mitlake! range

On the account of these Pretences, 1 am now obliged co inca

what it behoved me at first co adveictite: though (having tince ~dhes

informed that the Author of chat Giamonar was a triend, and only

signed an Improvement ot Mine) I had determined to ieca! ¢

the adveitilemenis tuat wee moc publilea.

SOLOMON Loprg

4 veryilf

~» Cven

sy Ge

thole of

me

HEREAS an Adverrisement was publish'd in this Paper 08! 2

figuisying that 3 Latin Grammar, pretending to be a Coleg,

from several learned Matters, was noth g else than Mr. Lowe's ney

Scheme defaced and ijl printed, the Author of that Collection rw

dilagrecable foever it be to him co contradi&) afhrms coat G:ammar

is, what it pretends to be, a Collection trom several learned Matters

and not from one only, much less from Mr. Lowe who hath no Pree

fody in his new Scheme, and whom the Author of the Colleigs

did not follow in the Synt:x, nor in the Method and Difpcfition

of Things treated of, which 1s indeed diferent from what hs beea

observ'd by ali Grammarians. If theretore he ret ts co the Fermatiog

of the Verb, the Author aid observe with Pleasure, that Mr. Lowe

had improved that Part on the F. undation of the R yaj Grammar

and Mr.Lane; and asin his Collection he aim’d only at Clearness

and an easy Instruction, fo he thought it no Crime to pur, what he

found ro answer that Design in Mi. Lowe's or cthers Colle&ions.

ina natural, easy, intelligisle Method according to his Title Pay

And this he thinks he hath done, at least much better than Mr. Love

so far hath he been from defacing any Part of his Scheme. 'Li.is hort

Collection is printed in a large tain, ealy to the Eye, ang

no Ways incumber’d. And if Mr. Lowe thinks it bad, ’tis {ome {y.

tisfaction that others think benerof it. At present the Author has

no other Apology to make tor this Colle&tion but, Se convenere

fatetur tranjinliffe atque ufum pro fuis. Tere Aug. iow,

This CulleGtion is printed tor John Gray at the Crofs. Keys in cag

Poultry.

MOCl 2

Te

DS,

ea:

Ce.

The be WATER in the Woatn,

So called by those who have experienced it to be {, for the Ircr,

og any Inching Hum-urs.

T hath been taken inwardly for the Kiwe’s-EVig. 1: 35 good

to eure fore Eyes, or any other Sores, Ulcers, or Fiftida’s, it bas

preserved several from having their Limbs curt of, when all other

means have tailed.

The Price on the Bottle, One Shilling and Six Pence.

It is to be sold at Afr. Gomdge’s, at the Caikic in Wellmirster-E2'!;

Mr. Radford’s Toy Shop, arthe Rote and Crown t St. Cle-

ment’s Church-Yard in the Strand, near Aruncel-Screet Fody 204

at Afrs. Raw’s at the Norcy-Entsance OF the Ky yal-xcbange, over-

against Bartholomew-Lane. P

OVer-against Sr.

The Celefial Anodyne Tin€uve: Or, F

Fafine Mediine,

? . ee | ee ee

Bry and approv! of for us wi

de-tul and never-lailine § 4

giving immediate Ease and Relict jn all

manner of Pains, cither inward or cute

ward, and is the mott certain Remedy it

the World tor a tire and fpecly Cris

of the Cholick, and exp lling Wind,

Gripes and Pains in the stomach, the

Pleurify, stitches or pains in the fide back, loins, or any

other partg Kheumatck A:lments, which cause pain and

dolor. It hath given ease to a Miracle, when alleother Re

melies have tai’d; In the Giavel and Stone in the Kids

neys, it gives ease ferchwith, and b ines them away to Ade

miration, It also tacilitates and cauls a speedy Delivery

in Child-birth. °T:s no Q ack trifling thing to allure ve

World with, but a real and well-experienc d Medicine, not

aéting by Seunifaétion (as Opiates) but by a friendl:, bale

famick, and fubtile Nature, pacitying the molt tcvere and

terrible r.cking pains, and carriks off the Canfe, not by

purging, but by Tranfpisation, by Urine, or breaking Wind.

No Family ought to be without it; and uf.d ou wardly it

he Creat Pine

N-

cures Sw-llings, Aches, Pains, Numbn<fs or Weakn fs of

the Joints; ‘tis cxcellent for Cremops, and all other azed

Infirm:tics, eff.Cting Wonders in Agues, Fevirs, Small-pox, &c.

It is sold only by Mr. PARKER, Prnter, at his House in Salisbury-Court, or by such persons as he shall

and, if requested, will be brought to any peiion,

Hawker who fells his Penny Port.

Note, Tis feal’d as above, to prevent Counterfrits.

by tie

For the Benefit of those Persons who are afflicted with the

DROPSY,

Elizabeth Knell, who lives next Door to the Baker and Basket in Middle-Street, Cloth-Fair, near West-Smith-Field,

STILL continues to perform great Cures in the said Distemper, on both Sexes, and all Ages.

N. B. An Account may be had of several Cures at the Place aforesaid.

LONDON: Printed by A. Moore, for Captain Gulliver, near the Temple, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in.

[Price Two Pence.]

