The Grub-street Journal.

Numb. 44.

Thursday, NOVEMBER 5, 1730.

Tu Marcellus eris.

To the Authors of the Grub-street Fourral.

Virg.

From Mr. E. Warv’s Museum, Fulwood's Rents, Holborn,

Od?. 31, 1730.

GENTLEMEN,

Doubt not but, by this time, you have

fen a CONGRATULARY (as

the Author is pleased to ca'l it) Poem,

addiefv'd to the deservedly popular

Humpury Parsons, Eig; and written

by the elegant pen of our Landlord, long

fansous for felling good Ale and Verie.

The Poem I mention is held in such high esteem by his

Customers, that they proncunce it by far to outdo SHAKES-

pyar, or Miron, it being in the Theobaldine ftile ;

and indeed a coinpleat body of that species of Poetry..

Nay, fo-great an effect has it lately had, that a Coffee

Boy in the neigh ourhood, of a surprising and growing

Gevius, has, by reading it twice over, produced the fol-

lowirg Specimen of his Wit, fo like the Original, that

is next an impoffivility to distinguish one from Cother 3

and I defy all the Poets on earth ever to do the like.

Jo A derman Parsons, our new Lord Mave.

YO Par/fons ! thou who brew'tt the best of drink,

How glad am J that thou art made Lord Mare;

And that, as how, thou art for to be {fo

Twelve good long Months, not neither more nor less.

Thy houte is free to all that come and go,

To drink their skins full of thy famous beer ;

Which is as clear as fack, as ftrovg as brandy,

And makes the Citizens as drunk as \ords.

T'll never pais thy doors, but I will call,

And takea {wigg s; and whilst I ttagger home,

Tl sing thy fame to all eternity.

P.S. This young Gentleman is now reading Shate/pear

Refor'd, lent him by a neighbouring BooNeller, and be-

gins already to shew a mortal antipathy to Pope, threat-

ning to write against him, in imitation of Téesdad and

Ward; if {0, woe to poor A’exa der! we are told he

will vegin the attack, by Epigran.s, in the Daily Journal,

and carry on the war, from fix penny to fix shilling Pam-

hlets, till he has made his adversary for ever quit the field.

Wins more occurs you shall hear from time to time, by

Your humble Servant,

Timoruy Tenroort.

A BALLAD, by a Lady.

I.

E Knights of La Mancha, whose powerful sword,

No fair injur’d Damiels in vain yet implor’d ;

Attend to the tale of us Nymphs in dittrefs,

Secure of our love, it our wrongs you redress,

Derry down

2.

As late on the plains of famous Dunfmore,

Of Lords, Knights and Squires a numerous flores

Bites, Jockies and Parsons ailembled amain,

And Belles in gilt chariots adorn’d all the plain, &c.

There rural a in plenty were {cen,

Smart Cocks, and plate buttons aud doublets of green ;

And while at our coaches they ogle and loll,

They tickle our fancies with thoughts of a Ba//, &e.

But now friendly Sister mesotions the kind night,

And the dear precicus hours to pleasure invite :

hen we from the Beaux hop’d the devil and all,

ho’ loaded with Powder they give u. no Ba’, &e.

To the Bear they salad, where they finish’d the

Jobb,

They toafted our healths, hut with a drv bob 5

's foul with French clare: cac! hero did {will,

d while the Gups mov’), she Bail it food tall,

, 6.

Fair Cave’s and bright SHucxsurGu with Lovett’s

Sy wit,

Muft all to the charms of a bumper submit 5

Oh! who will believe it, when fame shall aver,

That C——n did Bacchus to Venus prefer, &c.

7.

But why with the rest, trusty Cave, did you fail,

Wao ne’er on the Ladies was known to turn tail 5

] fear tome field nymph did our pleasures foreltal,

And diiabled our {park that night for a Ba//, &c.

8.

Perhaps a strange truth we may seem to advance,

That Per £ now first vaulk’d the nymphs of a dance 5

But no wonder we figh unregarded by all,

Since ¢’en our own member affords usno Ba//, &c.

Ye Nobles and Commons, near Dunsmors’s wide

plain,

Who of the bad times and bad tenants complain ;

By sympathy mov’d with our wishes comply,

Who now, like your farms, unoccupy’d lie.

10.

But still we have hope, and the Mufe that indites

This Sonnet, inspires prophetical flights 5

That times will improve, and next race yield a Ba//,

And nymphs and high tax together shall fall.

Dear Bavy,

| Here fend you a fimile from Foc, which has all the

graces of the admirable passage which you lately ex-

tracted from the London Journal. And as I am perswaded

your impartiality is such, that you regard the Poetry only,

without any consideration of the politicks of either Party,

[ istreat you to redeem this {ubliine description from the

vile condition of loose and unmeaf{ured Prose.

The fimile I fend you runs thus in the Journal of

last faturday: € So have I teen an Afsin a miry way make

¢ an awkward itruggle to difingage his embarrafs’d limbes

* while at every step he made he flounder’d deeper in the

¢ mud, tillat last hisown clumfine(s has funk him to the

« bottom. ’

This is even below the dignity of the grave Animal

which it describes. But tee the different appearance it

makes by a little Elevation into heroick Metre.

So have I seen an Afs, in ' miry way,

? An awkward struggle make, to disengage

His * limbs embarafs'd; while + each step he made,

He flounder’d deeper in the mud, ’till * last

His * clumiiness has {unk him to the bottom.

‘a ?transpos’d + transpos’d 4 every 5 at * own,

To Mr. Bavius, Secretary to the very ancient and hoxour-

able Society of Grub-street.

SIR,

= my summer’s peregrivations I found the following

remarkable Epitaph upon one Mrs. Ann JENNINGs, a

very pretty Farmer’s Daughter, who dy’d at about 18

years old, of the Small-pox,y after fhe had been engag'd to

a young Presbyterian Parson, at Ramsbury in Wilts: who,

upon that melancholy occasion, vented his sorrows in the fol-

lowing pious Rhimes; which are to be seen upon a flat stone,

almost cover’d with grais, on the north side of Ramsbury

Church-yard.

Here lies a peice of Christ, a starr in dust ;

A vein of gold; a China dish, that must | ¢

Be us’d in heaven, when God shall featt the Just ;

Approv'd by all, and lov’d fo well,

Tho’ young (like fru that’s ripe) fhe fell.

A place having been allowed the celebrated Mrs. Old-

field in Westminster Abbey; I hope our chafte Readers

will not be offended at the respect paid to her memory

} in the following Poem.

To the Memory of Mrs. Anne Oldfeild.

TAY Paffencer a while, reluétont ee,

(J Whar Beaury is, and what thy self shalt be,

How soon the tair- ft Litty will decay;

| Aud warmest Bernas, are the coldest C_ay,

Tyrannick Dearu! at thy approach we fill,

And thou, regardless, lay’ft thine Hands on all.

From Infancy, to Youth, to riper Years,

From Man mature, to Age’s flaxen hairs:

The Viétor and the Vitim equal laid,

With him that drove th ploughs and as’d the fpade.

But here ' —— the mirror of the English stagey

‘Not worn by Troubles, nor o'ercome by Ages)

Yields her to Deaths fupremer; ow’r, a slave,

And trozen lies imprison'd in the grave:

Jut at the Autumn of her years cut down,

And e’re her beauty fades, her lite is gone.

‘er ! here! the poor remains of Opriz-b lay,

Guy was the Pir. whenever fh: was gay,

Coquetts would blush. and Jilis would envy beary

To fee themselves fo well pertorm’d in her $

While every Air, our admiration draws,

And ev'ry Exir, eccho’d with applause:

But when our ScortisH Mary was her Part,

Or Marta figh’ng for her Jusa’s heart ;

Cr when enthrall'd with SopHontspa’s cares,

The Stage became a fea of brit!y tears.

The following Epigram comes from Newbold fiper

Avon. I am a stranger to the subject of it; but, as it

seems to be written with some spirit, I could not forbear

inserting it in this Paper.

THE Furies at a time in corfult met,

Who next to Satan shou’d in triumph fit $

Dulness her heavy arguments propos’d,

And Envy all her poys’nous veins ditclos*d :

I}l-nature next arose in furly state,

Hold, fays Sir Satan, end your grand debate.

A mortal in superior merit stands,

Have you forgot my old friend P--rf--n H ——?

To him, next me's the mighty Empire due,

He's Dullness, Envy, and Ill-nature too.

LONDON.

W.E. Whitehall Ever. Post

L.E. London Even. Pof.

L.J. London Journal.

FP. Fog's Journal.

C. Courant.

P. Po/? Boy.

D.P. Daily Pof.

D. J. Daily Journal.

E.P. Evening Post. Cr. Craftsman.

S.J. 8. James's Even. Poff. Un.Sp. UniversalSpefator.

Tuurspay, O2. 29.

On tuefday one Christopher Cormick, with 4 other

men, came to Mrs. Kilham at the golden hind in Red-

croi.«treet to drink, and carried off a quart silver tars

kard, which being immediately miffed, her fon went

out after them, and took Cornick near Cripplegate Church,

with the tankard upon him the other two made off, and

being carried before Sir William Billers, wa committed

tonewgate. Ibid. P. DP. SF

The proper instruments having pass'd the Great feab

for the reftoration of the elistes of Coll. Charteris, lately

forfeited on his attainder for Felony, we hear he fets out

next Week to take possession of those in Middlesex, Lanea-

shire and Westmoreland. Jéid. E P.

On tuefday last died at his house in Tibbald’s Row, Ro.

bert Cunningham, Efgs univerially regretted by all that

knew him, being a person that entirely devoted his lifg

to the service of God, and the good of mankind. Jé7d,

Erp. SF.

Isaac Hill, a soldier in the third regiment of guards, was committed to prison for stripping his wife stark naked, and whipping her with a cord, which occasioned her to cry out murder in the middle of the night; and

also for drawing his sword upon the constable and watchs

men. DP. DF. EP. SF. I thirk the whip.

pers of the Bridewels about torn ouvht to evter anation |

against that fellow for invading their ofice in fo Jcandée/

sous @ manrer.

Laft night a dumb peal was rung at S. Bride’s, Fleet.

street, on account of the death of Mr. Patrick, Weathers

glass-maker 3 also a famous ringer, and a great promoter of

that art. DP. DF. EP. S F.

The Hon. Mr. Spencer Cowper, only Brother to the

Earl Cowper, is preparing himiself to go into holy orders $

he is a student of Exeter College Oxford, and about 18 years of age, a young Gentleman of great expectation. Ibid.

[Page 2.]

OC Sart rhomfe, OF. 26, 1730. Between 6 and 7 in

he am rroon laft_triday, a low Duteh dancing-master, as

he was exercing his faculties for his diversion, as usual,

tut a high Dutch caper, with ftich mercurial force 4s

brought down great part of a large pent-house, three or

feus rooms in length, and dislocated the rest in fo ter-

fible a manner as turprized and endangered many of the

Gentlemen-pensioners, and it was forced to be taken down

She nexe day. [did.

“The Lady Elizabeth Sr. Anpre was to wait on herMa-

Jey some days since. bid.

he Rev. Mr. Hawkins is appointed Chaplain to the

Lord Mayor during his Mayoralty.

Friday, O@. 30.

Yesterday’ his R. Highness the Pr. of Wales, with the

R. Hon. the Earl of Scarborough, were at the seven stars

on Ludgate-hill, to see the proceflion of the Lord Mayor’s

shew. C. ‘The fame day the R. Hon. the L. Chancellor,

several of the Judges, his excellency the Freach Ambaffa-

‘dor, and several persons of distin@tion, honour’d his Lord-

ship with their presence at dinner. Jdid. P.. DP.

The fame day the L. Viscount Gage, with several fo-

reign Ministers, and persons of distinction, dined at the

King s-arms tavern in St. Paul’s Church.yard. did.

Yesterday came certain advice of the death of the Rev.

Mr. Laurence Eufden, Poet-Laureat to his Majesty; and

we are credibly informed, that he will be succeeded as Poet-

Laureat, by Mr. Stephen Duck. D P.

The Hen. Stephen Poyntz, Eig; has been appointed by

his Majesty, Tutor to his Highness the D. of Cumber-

land. D P.

SATURDAY, OZ. 31.

“Yesterday being the anniversary of his Majesty’s birth-

day, his Majesty received the compliments of several of

the Nobility, foreign Ministers, and other persons of distin-

€tion, in the drawing-room, when the mulick, both vocal

and instrumental, that was composed for the day, was

performed before a numerous and splendid audience, and

the evening was concluded with a ball. In the Cities of

London and Westminster the fame was observed with all

demoniflrations of joy, as firigg the great guns of the Tower

and Park, displaying of cable, ringing of bells, &c. C.

P. DP. D7.

The Rev..Dr. Smith, who was lately chosen Provost of

Queen’s Coll. Oxford, fet out on thurfday last to take pot-

session of the fame. Ibid.

On thurfday morning the house of Mr. Culpit in Grub-

street, was broke open by some rogues, but the watch

prevented them from doing any further mischief than only

carrying off a piece of check’d linnen. did.

he fame day a man that was potted to secure the chain

the corner of Milk-street, “te prevent coaches coming into

Cheapside. was fo hard pressed by the mov, that he was

forced to let go his hold, by which he feil with such

| wiolence, that he broke both his legs. He was immedi-

ately carried to St. Bartholomew’s hospital. dia.

Yesterday the Lord Harrington gave a grand enter-

tainment to several prime Ministers of State and foreign

Ambassadors, at his house in St. James’s-square. Ibid.

Yesterday was buried, at S. Pancras, Mr. Tho. Hurdman, an eminent Attorney in the Poultry 5 eminent in

his profeflion, for his integrity, as well as ability. In him

each client found a fiucere friend, as well as a faithful ad-

vifer; eminent in the practice, as well as [the] knowledge

of religion. He had every grace that could make man

amiable, and every vertue that could render him valuable.

2. DP.

We hear that a fine monument will be erected in Westminster-abbey, to the memory of Mrs. Oldheld, near the

place of her interment. did. I hope the inscription on that monument will particularly mention the Codri-

fiian, as well as mowal virtues of that Lady.

The Lady Diana Fielding, Sifter to the R. Hon. the

Earl of Denbigh, had last thuriday one of the new-

fashioned anonymous Letters fent. to her, at her house in

Duke-street, Weilininster, threatning death and fire, &c.

in cafe her Ladyship did not fend a certain fum of mo-

ney to a place in the Letter specity’d. Ibid. DT:

Yesterdiy one Wilkins, a Milk-woman, hang’d her{cif

in her apron-ilrings, in New-street, by Covent-garden. Jd.

This morning the Dukes of Grafton and Newcastle,

and Earl of Godolphin fet out for Norfolk to visit the

Lord Townshend and Sir Robert Walpole. EP. WE.

On sunday, last died in Child-bed the Wite of Mr.

Stephen Duck, the famous threshing Poet, whose works

have justly recommended him to the Royal favoor, and

the world’s esteem. S$ 7.

This day a quarrel happen’d at the Bank, between a

certain Collonel and a Knight (a Physician) when the

former drew his sword, the latter having struck him; but

the people interpofing, no miichief was done. L E.———

The Ph fician was certainly in the wroug'to make use of

such weapers, when be might have effected it in bis own

ways if what bis brother Ph fieian, as well as Knight,

Bir Samue! Garth, jays is trues

That Death in ainbuth lies in every Pill.

Di/pen/.

fowls, Se.

Yeftérday as Alexander Maccoy, drum-beater in Che!-

fea College, was returning from Hampstead, he found a

woman hanging on a tree in the aforesaid town 3 he cut

her down, and after a considerable time fhe came to life :

She was carried to a Justice’s house, and there declared,

that her husband was in trouble, and obliged to leave

her in distress, which was the occasion of her fo doing.

S Ff. I bear the husband intends to fue the drum-

mer for damages, for cutting the rope, foas perbaps it may.

not be fit for the fame uje another time.

Monpay, Nov. 2.

St. James's, O8: 29. This day Abraham Stanyan, Efg;

his Majesty’s late Ambassador at the Ottoman Porte, being

returned from Constantinople, waited on his Majesty, and

delivered his recredential Letters from the Grand Signior

and Grand Vizier; and his Majesty was pleased to reccive

him very graciously. C. D P.

They write from East-Retford in Nottinghamshire, that

a fine Spaw hath been discover’d there, which in the judg-

ment of several eminent Physicians, is nothing inferior to

the German Spaw. C. did.

Tuespay, Nov. 2,

Yesterday the sessions of the peace was held at Guildhall

before the R. Hon. Humphry Parsons, Esq; Lord Mayor

of this City, when Tho. ‘Tompson and Lavinia Whitney

were try’d fora conipiracy, in causing one William Gib-

fon to personate one Samuel Brooks, and to marry the

said Lavinia in his name: after atryal of 5 hours they

were both found guilty, and sentenced to stand in the Pil-

lory in Cheapside, to pay a fine of 10 marks each, and to

futter 6 months imprisonment in Newgate, to remain in pri-

fon till the fine is paid, and to find securities for their be-

haviour for one year. C.

On faturday morning early, the house of Mr. Roberts,

a Gardener, near Holland-Walk at Kensington, was broke

open, and robb’d in money, &c. 00 the value of touricore

pounds. P.

Extract of a Letter from Newport in Wales, dated O&. 27,

HIS Town is now in tears, upon the unhappy lofs of

31 persons, cho perifeed this morning about 9 0° clock,

by the over-setting of one of our vessels, Roger Walters,

Master, about a league and a half out of the river, off

Peterjione, bound for Bristol, laden with corn, batter and

Ibid.

Bristol, Of. 31. There has run a report that JMajor

Prater’s house in Froom was fet on fire by the incendia-

ries; but we are glad to hear it is without foundation:

tho it is certain he had a letter or two, demanding money

48 according to custom, upon pain of having his house

burnt, and himself murdered, &c, The town upon this rofe

to agreatnumber, and made a general fcarch; and, aswe

are informed, were resolved if they found any strangers of

a certain nation, that could not well account for theme

selves, to tear them in pieces. EP. These villains,

let them be of what nation foever, deserve no other treat-

ment than to be Dewitted.

Yesterday about 200 men were employed to carry on

the new serpentine river in Hyde-Park, under the direction

of Charles Withers, Eiq; Surveyor of his Majesty’s Parks

and Forests, which is to be 400 yards long, 1°20 yards

broad, and 49 foot deep, His Majesty having approved of

a plan for building a: Royal mansion-house, in the fame

Park, orders are given for the carrying it on with the ute

most expedition, under the direction of William Ripley,

Eig; £ P.

We are assured, that a patent for the Theatre Royal

in Drury-lane, is ordered to pass the seals, in favour of

Mr. Wilks, Mr. Booth, and Mr.Cibber. Jdid.

They write from Maidstone in Kens, that that on fune

day night about 10 o'clock appeared flafhes of lightning,

which continued, with thunder and rain till yesterday

morning, when there happened a great clap of thunder,

with flathes of lightning, infomuch that the Church fteeple

was fet on fire, and great part of it burnt, by which the

Church was in danger of being consumed; but by the care

and industry of the inhabitants, the fame was extinguished

by 9 o'clock. SF

On wedneiday night one Mr. Hall was attacked by 2

foot-pads in a field beyond Stepney-Church, one of them

cut him a-cross the fingers with a knife; they took trom

him some silver and;halt pence, his hat and wig and cane, The

said Mr. Hall, notwithstanding he was desperately wounded,

had the bravery to go home, and load his fowling-piece

with ball, and went in pursuit of them, but the villains

were fled. S F. This Hero, for all kis bravery,

seems to have been bred at the College of Goatham; how

‘else could he expect to find them in the same place where

they bad robbed bim.

They write trom Exeter of the 31 ft of O&. that some

of the miscreants of Bristol were come into that City; for

that the night before several threatening letters were found,

one delivered to Mr. White a Merchant, <ix

-~-Awe

SIR,

BZ ing in want of monty, doUdefire vou would put foe

guineas to morrow behind a fione which refs again

St. Marys Church, which will fati:fy uss otherwise re.

member Briftel and Mr. Packer. Our name is

Legion. ZF.

The wefternfroads are fo infefted with Highwaymen,

that a certain’weft country Attorney (near 7 toot high)

coming to London in order to be {worn, together with ¢

or 10 of his Brethren, through fear of being robbed, let:

his pistols (being capped with silver) with his | ndlord at

Sarum. Jdid. I would advise all valiant Traveller;

to leave their arms at home, whether pistols capp’d with

lilver, or silver-bilted fevords, unless they intend to mate

we of them.

WeEDNEsDAY, Niv. 4.

Laft night the corpse of his Grace the D, of Cleveland,

after lying in state in the Jerufalem Chamber, was interr’d

with great funeral pomp in Westminster Abbey, when the

tollowing Dukes, Knights Companions of the Garter fup-

ported the Pall, «x. the Dukesof Dorset, Somerset, Kent,

Bolton, Rutland, and Montague. C.

Laft sunday an unhappy accident happen’d in a honfe ig

Tyburn read, two men being in licuor, one Bolton and

Cafe; and quarrelling, Bolton {truck Cafe on the Head with

a poker, and fractured his feull; whereupon Cale flatbed

Boiton in the right breast with a penknite; they are both

under the care of a Surgeon, but it is feared their wounds

are mortal. D 7.

We hear that the present Duke of Cleveland has the pro»

mife of his fathers Blue Garter. Jd /d.

By the dreadful Hurricane that happen’d last faturday,

several trees were tore up by the roots, at Ponders-end

near Edmonton, and many houses damaged. Jd.

Extract of a Letter from Jamaica, dated 31 Aug.4

A Spanish lieutenent, with about 20 men, are arrived

here in a boat, from whom we learn, that they fail’d

from Carthagena for Cadiz, in a Spanish man of war, cal-

led the Genoefa, but fhe unfortunately run on a fhoal a

few leagues from this Island, called Point Pedro Shoals,

where the ship fet fat and was wrecked. As soon as the

news came to the knowledge of the South-Sea Company’s

Agents here, they dispatched a Snow to their assistance. This

ship had on board, in gold and silver, to the value of

1,100,000 pieces of eight, of which 250,c00 were a

_ for. the Queen of Spain, the rest for account of the

ing. ‘he late President of Panama, and several other

state Prisoners which had been fent for to Old Spain were

on board. Mbit of our Sloops and small craft are gone and

going to fave what they can. D F. —— Should the Jike

misfortune bapten to any of our ships, I believe, indeed,

the Spaniards would fave what they could; but whether for

themselves or us, is doubtful.

Jo Mr. Giuxuiver.

See in one of the Grub-street Journals the copy of a

{currilous libel against the Paper, accompanied with the

threat of murdering the Bookseller; [ cannot but highly

approve of your making this publick, and offering a reward

for the detecting and prosecuting such a villany. "Tis

equally the concern of every honeit Man, that tome flop

be put to this new practice of fending private Letters, me

nacing Murder and Fire: This (it seems) isno sooner be-

gun by the Roszinc Rocues, but it is followed by th:

Writing ones of our nation, from whom as much mischief

may be apprehended, since most of them are incendiaries

already 3 and not only as meedy, but more malicious and

resentful than any common robbers that cannot write.

You Booksellers very well know what great lengths

some of you will run, through either of these motives, and

what insults on Gop, Man, and Woman, they are ca-

pable of thro’ malice or necessity. I will therefore afliit

you in your search, by pointing out among what fort of

People you are to look for the Man, and I believe, I can

guess hin within five.

I know a Scribbler who endeavoured to engage an Of-

cer of the Army, to assassinate another for treating him

as his enemy, when he had abused him in print, without

provocation; which not succeeding, the poor wretch re-

lieved his {piteful nature by buying the Gentleman's Butto

at a very dear rate, meerly for the ingenious revenge of

tacking it to a monkey’s body.

I know a second, who went toa person of honour in

the Zower with a virulent Libel, by which he propeted, t?

his face, to ruin him, under such a fum of money to fup-

press it.

And a third, who did the same to the worthy Coll

nel Charteris.

I know a fourth, who has kick’d his first Wife to death,

and now permits his Child by her, to be kept by the parth

of St. Margaret’s Westminster. I know a fifth, who de

frauded his Sifter of her portion in Gace/hind, lett her by het

father, and fold her estate by a falle Conecyance, tor ¥/2'64

he is, or lately was, under prosecution.

a

ee

If I fe you publish this Letter, I will (without being

d by any reward) let you know these Men, and

pean loon ts [ on od to think, will betray

che person, for the reward you have offered, or le(s.

‘And that you may not take this meerly as a kindness

to yourself, I promise, in regard to any Gentleman, or

honest Tradesman whatever, that the first time any Man’s

moral character shall be attacked by one of these People,

[ will name that Mes, and expoie the fact above-hinted,

which relates to him, in a/f its Circumstances; that the

world may fee from what fort of People these slanders pro-

ceed, and how proper they are to censure the conduct of

others. Iam, yours, &c. Ss——.

From the Peca/us in Grub-street.

St. Fames’s, Ot. 30. The place of Poet Laureat be-

coming vacant by the death of the late Reverend Mr.

Eufder, and Several Candidates of egual merit pretending

to the fame, it is credibly reported, it will be put into

Commifion. ‘The following persons are named for Com-

missioners, Stephen Duck, Labourer, Co//y Cibber and

James Moore, \ifgss L. Theobald, Attorney at Law, and

John Dennis, Gentleman.

We hope our gentle Readers will not be surprised at

the mention of a dead person in this Commission; it be-

ing the opinion of many of ofr Members, that the Ode

printed in Monday’s Post Boy, must have been written

either by him or the Rev. Mr.'Eufden, likewise deceased: cer-

tain itis, that no man a/ive could write such an one.

This day is the anniversary meeting for the Hums,

when it is thought that Dr. Owen will be unanimously

chosen Physician to that ancient and venerable Body, in

the room of Dr. Bale, deceased.

Laft thurfday, about 9 o’ the clock, the R. Hon. Hum-

phry Parsons, Eig; the new Lord Mayor, took water at the

Cranes, being attended by the following Companies in

their barges, (adorned with their streamers and pendants,)

viz. the worshipful the Grocers, Fishmongers, Goldsmiths,

Merciant-Taylors, Haberdashers, Clothworkers, Coopers,

Apothecaries, Stationers; and having proceeded to Westminster, his Lordship having saluted all the Courts, took the oaths appointed, and returned to Dorset-stairs; from

whence the proceflion began in the manner and form

following: Wirft proceeded the Lvcather-fellers, Painters,

Poulterers, Armourers, Brewers, City-Marshal, 6 Judges,

9 Pioneers, a Cornpany of Grenadiers another Company,

44 Pikemen, the Cripplegate Grenadiers, Barber-Chirurgeons, 12 standards belonging to the Grocers Company,

City-Marshal, 54 old Men, the City-Marshal, 31 Budge-

Batchelors, 21 Sheriffs Ofticers, the worshipful Company

of the Grocers, of which the R. Hon. the Lord Mayor is

Master. When his Lordship was under Ludgate, the

Prison discharged above 30 Chambers; next his Lord-

ship’s horse, with fine velvet furniture trimm’d with gold,

led by 2 footmen in rich liveries, his Lordship in his coach

of state, drawn by 2 dun (or, some fay, forrel ) hortes,

whose harness cost about 500 1. the late Lord Mayor, the

Aldermen, Sir Edward Beecher, Sir Rob. Baylis, Sir Ger-

rard Conyers, Ald. Champion, Ald. Salter, Ald. Child,

Sir John Williams, Ald. Barber, Ald. Alfop, &c. John Ful-

ler, Esq; Sir aac Shard, Sheriffs, Common Serjeant, Cham-

berlain, Town-Clerk. In proceeding by the south side

of St. Paul’s the following Companies were in their itands,

the Needle-makers, Coach-makers, Fruiterers; on the eatt-

fide, the Upholders. In Cheapside, on the right hand, were

the Joyners, Blackmiths, Bricklayers, Plumbers, Mafons,

Butchers and Salters; and on the left were the Plaisterers,

Embroiderers, Distillers, Sadlers, Founders, Glovers, In-

holders, Carpenters, and Waxchandlers; and being further

accompanied by several great Officers of State, and other

persons of distinétion, among whom was his excellency

the French Ambassador with his Lady, in a coach and

fix; they proceeded with great solemnity to Guildhail,

Where a fumptuous and magnificent entertainment was

prepared for them. His Lordship was huzza’d by such

multitudes of People, as was never known on the like oc-

casion, and the balconies were fo crowded as amaxed every

ys allexpressing great joy and satisfaction, in having

fo very worthy a Magistrate to preside over them, whose

Chief care is the publick good, as this City has experienced

for many years.

Gees

Barbadses, Sept. 10. A veflelis arrived here, which took

Up a Mulatto, who was found floating on a plank: he

ays he belonged to a Brigantine called the Herring, that

fhe foundered at fea, and all on board her were drowned

except himself, DF. EP. Sf. WE.

ublin, OF. 22. Yesterday morning about § 0’ clock

Ppened a very melancholy accident; fonre men einploy’d

to falt beef at a Merchant’s standing, near Evlex-bridge,

Sertain Gentlemen going by, there arose a quarrel; upon

Which one Mr. Johnioa drew his {word, and followed one

of the falters as tar as Temple-bar, and there stabb’d him

in the thigh, of which he soon after died. The said Johne

fon was immediately taken into custody, with one Mr.

Porter, who unfortunately happenedto be in his company.

Every body is concern’d for Mr. Porter, as it appears he

was no farther accessary than by falling into the company

of the faidJohnfon.n§ DF. ws )

Dublin, O8. 26. ¥efterday being the anniversary of the

Irish rebellion in 1641, the Lords Justices went in state to

Christ-Church, where a sermon suitable to the occasion

was preached by the Rev. Mr. Godley. €,.

Dublin; Of. 26. An attempt was made to ravish a

young girl in the Castle-yard, last week; but fhe cryin

out to the centry, the fellow was secured before he coul

do her much harm. C.

FOREIGN NEWS.

THurspvay, O€. 29. ote

Our Iaft Letters from Lisbon advise, that the ship which

brought the 8 ‘bells, caft for the K. of Portugal at Genoa,

happening to come into {the} Tagusat midnight, his Por-

tuguefe Majesty went immediately to fee them; and theie

bells have since been carried into the church of Mattre ;

but first the Patriarch of Lisbon went. and baptised them

m a village 3 leagues otf: they had cach of them a holland

shift, and fa brocaded pettcioat over it. C. DP. E P.

——— Thee bells by their weeds I suppose were of the feni-

nine — in Christning the next jett (which 1 hope wit!

be all of the Majeuline) I prefame they will not forget to

below upon each a holland fei.t, and a pair of breeches.

Lette:s from Alftant aavife, that the transports hired

thereto carry the Troops to Italy, were return’d from Bare

celona with part of the troops on board, which are put

into Winter quarters in such a manner, that they may be

ready to embark at a minute’s warning in the {pring; that

hofe transports were punCtually paid to the day they were

discharged; that the Court being fet out the 12th on their

return to Seville, without fixing the time for delivering

the Effects of the Flotilla, it begins to be doubted whether

they will be delivered till nexe Spring. [did SFE.

Venice, Of. 21. By letters trom our Agent at Constan-

tinople we learn, that the whole discourde ran upon th

general decisive battle, which the Grand Signior was gone

in person to give the new Sophy, no offers of Peace be-

tween them being there talk’d of, or suspected. D P.

SFE.

Friva yy, OG. 30

~~ aes

Copenhagen, OF.18. N.S. His Majesty will appoint

Cominiflioners to examine into the affair of the Bishop and

Course.or Diechman. Great Preparations are making at

Odentfee for the late King’s funeral. C. His Majesty

gives early tokens of an active Reign in the many sudden

removas ma¢e at Court: The Couut de Laveswick, among

others, is discharged of his Post of \iafter of the Horte,

in favour of Baron Gorfdorf, and M. S:affield of the Post

ot Major General. DP. EP. I ain of optnion the

discarded Courtiers will hardly thank kim for bis adivity.

SATURDAY, Oct. 31.

Paris, Of. 27. The Prince of Berkenfelt, L. General

of the King’s Armies, is expected here suddenly, where he

is to take up a new religion and abjure the old; the Prince

his Son, who accompanies him, has been bred a R.Ca-

tholick, fo He keeps his own; the Cardinal de Rohan lends

them his Palace during their flay.C. —~ 1 suppe/e the Cardj-

nal will lend bint his Religion, as well as bis Palace.

Monpay, Now. 2.

On Saturday arrived the Mai? due from Holland.

Hague, Nev.7. N S. The Dake de Ripperda is arrived

bere tvcognito. C. That Gentleman who was very

cucll kiown heretofore, seems of late very foud of appearing

incog. be eft Spain incog. be came over into England incog.

and now be ts at the Hague incog.

Hague, Od. 24. It is intinuated as if the Q. of Spain

was more intent than ever upon closing with hts Imperial

Majesty § and that the Intante Don Carlos wil] be feat to

the Court of Vienna, to imbibe the Austrian maxims and

manners, and in due time to marry one of the Empero.’s

Jaughters (the Queen his mother’s darling thoug!t) ti!

when he may live there with {p!endor, unless the deaths

of the Dukes of Tuscany or Parma should cal] him to take

possession of either ot these Duchies. P.

he Court of Vicnna {pares no pains to put their aMairs

in Italy ina flourishing condition. iid.

Hamburgh, Niv.3. ts advised from Copenhagen, that

in the Jatt private audience which the French Ambatlador

had with the King at Fredericksbourg, his Majesty gave

freth ailurances, that he would faithfully observe the Alli-

ance concluded between the late King, his father, with

the Crown of France. 75/2.

Vienna, O&. 24. N.S. There is handed about here a

pamphict in the French tongue, wherein two temperaments

are proposed, as on the part of the Allies of Seville, to pre-

vail with the Emperor to come into a friendly accommo-

dations which temperaments are to the following effeé,

cic. © They will engage by an express Article, not to op-

* pote the icheme of the Succeifion, which the Emperor

‘ may make of his estates in Italy; but the said estates

' ? . 9 "29 Tag

shall’oa tle contra: y fhe guaranteed. 2, By angther Ara

ticle, provision fhal! be made, that any advantages which

his Imperial Majesty (with the content of the States in

Italy) shall think fit to give to his eldest daughter, Shall

not be oppoféd, but suffered to take place.’ ,"Tis written

from Saxony, that the troops of that Eletorate are to be

augmented with 16cco men. C.

Paris, Of. 26. N.S. The news that we have from

Prussia direct, differs trom that we meet with in the

Dutch and English prints. Our advices fay, that the Kigg

appears determined to proceed in the affatr of the Prince

his fon, who has been examined very ftriGly on several

nice points. P. If he is determined to proceed, [4

Shin kniso who can binder bin.

Tuespvay, Nov. 3.

This dey arrived a Mail from France, and two from Flan

. >, Gt

Parts, November 10. Yesterday the Lord Waldegrave,

Ambassador of Great Britain, had an Audience of his Ma-

jesty, and then conferred with the Cardinal Ficury upon the

Contents of some Dispatches he lately receiv’d from his

Court. The Baron Fonteca, one of the Plenipotentiaries

of his Imperial Majesty, is preparing to fet out for, his

Court pursuant to the Orders he lately receiv'd. Count

Kinski, the Imperial Ambassador, who ha: the {ole Mae

nagement of Affairs for the Fmperer at this Court, pre-

fented his Credentials tor that purpof on Thursday.

‘They write from Napies, that vast quantities of provisions

and stores have been brought thither trom several parts of

italy, that the Kingdom may be in a formidable potture of

celence should any thing te attempted against it by ghe Spa.

niards. We hear from Rome, that the ope has fent a

very Paternal Letter to his Portuguese \.ajesty exprefiing

his great concern that the differences becween the two

Courts should hive fo long subsisted; but withal, that he

was mightily pleased at the happy Accommodation which

had enfued since his Holiness’s coming to the Chair. $F.

Erufels, Nev. 8. Her Highness the Archdutchels held

yesterday a council of state upon the Ostend Company's

Affairs, after which a Courier was fent to Count Kiaski

at the Court of France. J4id.

The Duke de Noaijles Governor of Versailles has caused

ground to be marked out for the building a house, into

which lewd women are to be putto work, at divers forts

cf business for Life. E P,

Mynheer Catfch has been condemn'd by the King of

Prussia’s Council of War to lofe his head, and is {to be ex

ccuted at Kuftrin; at present the Place of the Prince Roy

al’s Retidence.

Wrowesp ay, Now. 4.

Paris, Nov. 8. The grand Council which the King held

at Versailles with the Minitters of State, and all the Princes

of the Blood, upon the commission of the Marquefs de

Caftelhar, immediately after his excellency’s audience,

lias occasioned various Speculations; but nothing certain,

touching the reiult of it, has yet reach’d the ears of the

publick. DP.

Amfperdan, Nev. 10. They write from Warsaw of the

25th past, that by an account from Grodno, the Sena-

tors and Ministers, upon the breaking up of the Diet,

having assembled tozether in the King’s presence, his Ma-

jesty was graciously pleased to make them a {peech, to the

following purpose; * That he was not insensible of the

* great trouble and fatigue they had underwent, even in

‘ prejudice to their healths, to appear at the Diet in due

‘ time, to contribute, as far as lay in their power, to the

‘ publick good of the Kingdom: That he was sufficiently

‘ convine’d of their good intentions to serve their Coun-

‘try, but since particular persons, thro’ mistaken zeal,

‘ have thought fit to oppose them, his Majediy itil hoped

‘ that proper means would be taken, to fave his faithtul

* subjects from any prejudice thereby. /bid.

Caidinal Cofcia, in the late Pontiticate, having order’d

Charles Gianini, the Pope’s Printer, to procure him from

London some books of value, they being arrived, Gianini

intorm’d bis Emisency thereot; deiiring he would be

t lreased to order him money to pay his Correspondent; but

his Eminency fent some of his servants, with porters to

fetch the Books, who resentfully bid him remember the

tavour he had received from the Cardinal. Gianini therefore

let go the books, for tear some worle mischief should fall

upon him. P.

It surprises not only this city, but all Europe, to

hear that his Holine{s has order’ the Cardinal Secretary

ot state to dispatch to the Archbishop of Turin the Brief’

of the Univer{al Jubilee, wit! «rders to cause it to be

printed and posted in the said city and diocef@, under pain

of excommunication, without asking leave of the new

ing of Sardinia; whence we are in expectation of what

-= *® @ a

resolution the said King will take thereupon. J¢id.

_ es i

ang Geutlersan having took on my Lord Mayor's Day

last, from the Room bebind the Bar, at Vintne

Elall, by Mistake, ixfead cf bis cron, a fearlet Cloath

ding Coat, the Sleeves lived with Shagreen Silk, with

red (Vax Seal, with a Cypher in the Back; is desired

Jend it back to the said Hall, to Giles Heaper upper Be

wee wid return bin bis ewn.

Booxs and Pamrnvets published in October.

The Duty of praying for Ministers, &c. a Serm. by

Dan. Neal.

The Political State of G. Britain, for September.

Religion the great support, and vice the destruction of

Goyerinent, and the publick happiness: a Serm. by Jof.

Trapp, D. D.

Foedera, Conventiones, Liter, &c. accurante Tho. Ry

mer, Edit. fecunda, studio Geo. Holmes, 17 Vol. Fol.

The Literary Journal, for July, August, and Sept. 8vo.

The Hittor'ca: Regiiier, Numb. LIX.

The Monthly Chronicle, for September.

The Hiitury of Executions, Numb. V.

Royal Benevolence, &c. a Poein, by Steph. Duck.

The Complest Herbal, Numb. > LI. 4to.

rag @Anglete re, par M. de Rapin Thoyras, Vol.

Bibliotheca Biblica, Numb. X¥, XT, XY II, on Deut.

New Political State. f G. Britain, N. I. for Sept.

Judgment and justice the folid foundation of human hap-

mess: a Serm Sept. 29. before the L. Mayor, &c. by

ig Knight, D. D.

Phe Nv. 4 cit. with critical Remarks; by Father Simon.

Translated by Will. Webiter, 2 Vol. 4to.

Rapin’s Hut. of Eng.'Tranfluted by Mr. Tyndal, N. 66.

compléating Vol. II.

sue Chriitianity from the first {peaking of Children.

LS usefulneis and necessity of Revelation: in 4 Serin.

by Will. Richardion, M. A.

The Occasional Writer, Numb. II.

A ‘lea for human reason; a Letter to the L. B. of

Lond. Price ts.

Hiitoria Literaria, N- mb.V. for September.

Mouern History, &c. by Mr. Salmon, N. 75. Vol.

XO N. 3

Maionry difieéted, &c. by Sam. Pritchard. Price 6d.

A Practical Grammar of the Latin ‘longue, &c. Pr. 2s.

The Threfher’s Whiicellany, &c. by Arthur Duck. Pr 6d.

Fhilotophical Transactions, N. 414. for May, June, July,

and August.

New view and observations on the anci nt and present

ftite of London and Westminster: by Rob. Burton. Con-

tinued by an able hand.

Vertes intcribed tg R. H. Humphry Parsons, L. Ma. &c.

A new mifceliany. Price 1s.

State triuls, 6 vols. Fol. with 2 additional volumes.

A iecond vindication of the Bp. of Lond. pastoral Let-

ter. Jirice 6d.

Royal remarks: or, the Indian Kings observations on the

mott tafhionable tollies now reigning in G. Britain.

A oem on the death of the celebrated Mrs. Oldfield :

by S. Littlemore.

On Tuesday Stocks were,

South Sea 103 5 8ths. South Sea Annuity 107 3 8ths

Bank 142 5 8ths. India 189 1 half. Three per Cent. An-

nuity 98 1 8th. Million Bink 1071 half. African 53.

York Buildings 31. Royal Assurance (1001. paid in) 93

thalf. London ditto (131. paid in) 12 1 4th 3 8ths.

Bank Circulation 51. 5s. South Sea Bonds 51. 145s.

— ditto 51. 16s. English Copper 41. Welth ditto

zh. 108.

Prices of Goods at Bear Key.

per Quarter per Quarter

Wheat ——22 to 26 Hog Peas —— 15 to 16

Rye —— 12 to 13 Boiling Peas— 17 to 21

Barley — 11 to 16 Pale Malt -— 12 to 21

Oas — 8 to 12 6 | Brown Malt—13 to 28

Horse Beans 15 to 21 Tares -—- 20 to 22

Coals 24s. to 25 s. 6d. per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 — 15s. to 20s. per Hundred.

Hops 1729 — 20s. to 35s. per Hundred.

Hops 1730 = 35s. to 70s. per Hundred.

Rape Seed 101. to 111. 10s. per Lait.

The Course of Exchange.

Madrid 42 1 half

Bilboa 41 7 8ths

| Leghorn 511 4th

Genoa 54 1 4th

Venice 48 7 8ths

Lisbon 5 s. 5d. 7 Sths.

Porto 5s. gd. 1 8th.

Dublin 11 1 4th.

Amsterdam 34 8

Ditto at fight 346

Rotterdam 349

Antwerp 35 6

Hainburgh 33 2

Parisat fig:t 32 1 4th

Bourdeaux ditto 321 8th

Cadiz 42 1 8th

ADVERTISEMENTS.

Lateip avis,

(A Subje® of universal importance, no lejs than to prevent the Decep

tion of Mankind in chat most important Point, the Salvation of ther

SovLs,

T nk SELF-DECBIVER plainly discovered to HimsenP: Or»

the SExious CnaisTian inftryGes in his Dury wo GOD,

O HimseLF, and co his Ne1GHBoUR. In some private Conicren-

C:g betw.en a Minister and his | a:idhioner.

By CLEMENT ELLIS, M.A.

Late Regtor of Kirkby ia No:tingnamihwe, Prebend of Southwell,

and Feilow of Queen’s Coliege, Q.on.

Homo fe nom fallat, DEUS non fallit.— \vug. Homil. 40.

Printed tur G. Ravine Tos, at the Bible and Crown in St, Paul’s

Church- Yards and J. BRADLEY, B wkfeiler an Chesterfield. Pr. 5 s.

f the iVerld eonla be per{uaded to lay aside its Itch after Contrever

fial Pieees, nhich ave the Bane of Christ:anity, and vould be, as it

vaeht, delighted with fuck Writings as would betcer the Lives of Men.

ratier than amuje and puzzle their Underfiandings, @ more mfeful Book

*vosld not be recommended to the Publick, it containing the whole Pra-

Ciical Dury of a Devout Christian, in ali its varicus Branches.

Where may be had, the Second Eamon, of

La Exopoliiga oi cad Park ty Ning ART.CLES of the Church

»¢ England: Founded on the Hoy Scr.ptuies and the Fathers ot the

‘wee firit Cotunes By J, Venxter, ReGtor ut St, Anarews 1p

(.nichester.

MLosopicAL Ira ncirttes of MEDICINE,

P Parts Costaining,

lL, A Vem wftration of the General Laws of Gravity, with their

Eff &. upon Avamal Bodiese 11 The more pariicular Laws which

outa in the Morion and Secretion vt the Vicai Fluids, applied to

the principal Diseases ana Irveulaiues of tne Anima! Macaine. IIL.

The Primary and Chief fatencions of Medicine in the Cure of Dii-

eafesy Vroblematicaliy proposed, and Mechanically resolv.d.

By THOMAS MORGAN, MD.

The Second Esition, with iarge Addition & reiatiny, to the Nature

snd Manner of Animal Sccreiions in general, with a particular Re-

gard co the Urinary Evacuations; in which the Beliiman tiypothefis

of Secretion is shews: to be talie and ablurd, and inconfitene with

th Appearances of Nature, and ail the Laws of Animal Motion,

Prinied tor J. Osborn and Te. LonoMaAN in Pater-Nolt.i-Row.

li here may be bad, ®

His CoLLecTion of Tracts relating to the Right ot Private

Judgment, the suthctency ot Scripture, and the Tei:ms of Church

Communion vpn Curdtian Principies 5 occasioned by che late Trint-

aain Comroverly.

This Day is Dublithed,

In THREE

Nex: Week will be published, wherein ave a great Variety of neo Tnnes,

by the moj Eminent Mapfiirs (and compleats this Collection,)

The Fitth and Sixth Volumes of

T 8 F MUSICAL MISCE:.L ANY. Beinga Collection of

Choice Sones and Lyaick Poems: With the Bafies to each

Tune, ana wadposed for the Fine.

Behoid and liften, while che Fair,

Bieaks in sweat Sounds cce yielsing Air 5

An¢ with herown Breath fans the Fires

Whick ber br.pht Eyes did orft inspire.

WALLER.

Printed by and for J. Warrs, at the Printing-Office in Wild-

Court, near Lincolo’s-Ino Fields, aud fold by che Booksellers both of

Town ang Counuy. Of wiiom may be had thei ft Four Volumes,

This Day is published,

PROPOSALS,

For ainvixe by SuBscRIPTION,

HE Necoriatrions and Emsassies of Sir THOMAS

ROE, Ane. Privy-Countellor to King CHARLES I. and

C.iancelor of (he molt Nuble Order of the GanTeER. Frm the

Year 1620, ( the Year 1644. In which Time he was Empatla-

vor-Exuaordinary trom hing JAMES I. and King CHARLES I. w

the Grand Signor, the Emperor, the Kings of Poland, Sweden, aud

Denmaik, and to the Principal Electors ot the Empire; as ailo wo

the Dyct of Rarsbonne. Tue greatolt Part designed by himlelt to

be made pudlick. To which will be added, many others, which

he incended ot to pubiith, as being of too privace a Nature to be

m.de publickin Times of Jcal wy and Diftraction, Inverfperfed wish

a jarge Account ot the Embalirs of Sir Roseatr ANsTRUTUER,

Sir ISAAC WAKE, Sir WiLLIAM BosweLu, Sir DupLEY CARLE

rox, the Lord SCcUDAMORE, the Earl ot LeicestTer, the Molt

lea:ned and Ever memorable Earl of ARUNDEL, and other Princi-

pal Ministers of that Time. ‘To which are aaded, Authentick Ad-

vices, Oxiginal Powers ard Instiuctisns, Treaties of Peace and ot

Commerce, and many Rare and Valuable Pieces, of greac Use to

cleat up the History ot that Importance Period. All irom their Ori-

ginal Letters and Pavers of State.

LETTERS, tays my Lord Bacon, written from wife Men, are,

of all the Words of Many in my Fudgment, the bets for they

are move nivuial than Orations ard public Speeches, end are

move adviled thin Conterences er prefene Speeches. So ayain

LevrreRrs ef o17alrs from such as manage them, ov ave privy te

them, ave, of aicathers, the best Instructions for History, and to

a diligent Readzr she bef Hiltorics in themfetves.

Baconi Opera, Vol. Il. p-463.

Sub titulo De Aug. Scieutiar.

N.B. This Work, ‘tiscomputed, will make five Volumes in Folio;

and M> more than 500 will be printed, ac 18 s. only each Volume ,

aud it Upwards ot 470 be subscribed tor, che Work shall be rencer'd

{till cheaper co the Publick, and allowed for in :he second Payments.

Proposaus are deliver’d gratis, cogether with some Account of

the WORK, and a Specimen of a tew of the Lerrers, by S.

RICHARDSON in Salisbury Court, Fleet Stveer, and Ss PALMER and

J. Huceonson in Bartholomew-Close; and by che tollowing Book-

fellas; viz.

Mei. Kap 'ock, Innys» ard Rivingtom, in St. Paul’s Church- yard ;

Meff. Bertesworth, and Hitch, in Parer-Nofter Row; Meil. Favram,

Strahan, Brotherton, Hinchliffe, and Walthoe, in Cornhill, Neti. Pem-

bertos, Gofling, Woodward, Wotton, Clay, Brown, Gilliver, and Coggan,

near Temple Bar; Melff. King and Stagg, in Westminster Hail; Mr,

Clements, at Oxtord; Mr. Crownfield, at Cambridge 5 Mr. Leake, az

Bath; and Mr. Ad: Enen, at Edinburgh.

This Day is published,

PLEA for HUMAN REASON; shewing the Sufficienesy of jn;

Mauers ot Religion. 1na@ leiter to the Right Revd, che L rr

Bishop of London. —s

Printed tor J. Roberts in Warwick Lane. Price z .

ee

This Day is published,

THE Lirs of MAHOMET. Trausiated irom the French Ori-

ginal written by che Count of Boulamvilliers, Auchor of re ;

Sent Stace of France, and vt the Hifiorical Memwirs thetety vd oined ;

*Tis tyme, Compoling is the Nobler } art, —

Bat geod Trausiation is no easy Art. Roscommon.

Printed tor W. Hinchiiffe, at Dryden’s Head under coe Royal-Ex.

Cc 1aD Zee

This Day will be delivered to the Subscribers,

THE Collection of Srats Tavans, ui fix large Volumes ig

Folw.

As also the two additional Volumes, containing

nigh such Tryals as

were noc ta the tormer Edinon.

The best WATER in the WoaLtp,

So called by those who have experienced it to be fu, for the

or avy Icching Huiours.

T hath been taken inwardly tor the hine’s-Evin. kt is good

to cure fore Eyes, or ay other Sores, Ulcers, or raftula’s; it has

piciervea several from having their Limbs cur off, when ali other

means have tailed.

The Price on the Bottle, One Shilling and Six Pence.

It is co be fold at Afr. Gondge’s, at the Caitic in W eltmintter- Hall;

Mr. Radfora's Toy Shop» atthe Rote aid Crown OVer-ayainit St. Cle-

m:nt’s Chutch-Yard in the Strand, near Arundel-Street End, and

at Adrs. Raw’s at ihe Ncrih-Baisanee of the Royal- Exchange, overe

against Bartholomew-Lane.

Itchy

on

\W HEREAS an Advertisement was publish'd in this Paper 02.22.

fi, mitying that 3 Latin Grammar, pretending to be a Collection

trom several learned Malters, was nothing else tian Mr. Lowe's new

Scheme dejaced and ill prinied, the Auth: fr of that Colleétion (how

dijagreccble foever it be co him co contradict) atfiims chat Giammear

is, what it pretends to be, a Colle&tion trom {everal learned Matters,

and not from one only, much less trom Mr. Lowe who hath no Pro-

fedy in his now Scheme, and whom the Author of the Colleétion

did not tollow in the Syntix, nor in the Method aud Diipotsion

or. Things treated of, which is indeed aifferent tiom what his been

observ'd by ali Grammarians. if theretore he ref ts to the Formation

or the Verb, che Author aid observe with Pleasure, that Mr. Lowe

had improved that Past on the F undation of the Royal Grammar

and Mr. Lane; and as in his Collection he aim’d only at Clearnefg

and an easy Instruction, fo he thovghe it no Crime wo puts what he

found co answer that Design in My. Lowe's or cthers Collections,

in a natural, ealy, intelligible Method according CO his Tule Page:

And this he thinks he hath done, at least much better than Mr. Lowe,

fo tar hath he been trom defacing any Part ¢f his Scheme. ‘This thore

Colleétion is princed in a large tau, easy to the Eye, aud

no Ways incumber’d, And if Mr. Lowe thi.ks it bad, ’tis some fa-

\istaétion thae others think beter of it. At present the Author hag

no other Apology co make tor this Colle&tion bur, SQe@ sonvenere,

Sfatetur craufinliffe atque ufum pro fuis. Ter. Ana. Pio. 3.

This Colletion is printed tor Jolin Gray at tae Crofs- Keys in we

Poultry.

Latclp Publish’r,

The Fourth Edition, with Additions

SOME ReflzG&ions upon MARRIAGE. Printed fer William

Parker ac the King’s Head in St. Vaul’s Church yard.

Where may be had, by the fame Author,

I, The CHRISTIAN RELIGION, 62s protefs’d by a Daughrer cf

the Church of England. In a Letter to a Lady = Shewtng che due

Behaviour of Women, the Vices they cughe to shin, and the Vir-

tues they ought co practice. A Ticacife very necessary im thie ceze-

nerate Age, to confirm the Lagies in their Religious Principics, and

to instruct them in what they ought to believe and practice, 10 ai-

der co cheir eternal Salvation. ‘The 3d Editien.

I]. Serious Propofais to the Ladies tor the Advancement of theif

true and greatest Ineveft. In Two Pans. The 4th Editon.

This Day is published,

In Three neat Pocket Volumes,

ISSCELLANIES in PROSE and VERSE by the Rev. Dr-

dwirt, and Mr. lope.

Liinted tor Be Motte in Fleet-street; and fold by W. Bickerton

at Lord Bacon’s Head without Temple-Bar, and Lawton Giliavety

at Homer’s Head against St. Dunstan’s Church, Flees ttreet.

ii bre may be had,

1. A new Edit. of the DuNcIAD, with some additional Notes and

E pigrams.

2. An Author to be LETT.

BOOKS printed for JoHN BroTHERTON, at the Didle next te

Fleece Vavera in Cor: hill.

Blair’s Sermons, 5 Vols.

Life or Oliver Cromvel

Gordon’s Geog. Gremmat

Borieau Oevie p ctigue

Pilyiim’s Propiels ;

Tales of the Fairics, 3 Vou.

English Tutor

Musical Dictionary

Shakelpear's Plays

Congreve’s Works

Garth’s Ovid

Roye.’s Telemachus

Meige’s State Of Bricaiae

Cambden’s Bricannia

Burkit on the New Testament

L’kitrange’s Jolephus

Tillotfon’s Works, 3 Volt

Bacon’s Works, 4 Vols,

Lock’s Wor Ks, 3 Vol.

Oldenburgh of Exchanges

Addison’s Works, 4 Vous. 4to

Putfendort’s Law ct Nacuie

Bailey’s Dictionary, fol.

Wood’s Institures, tol.

Carckas’s Rates, ful.

Stevens’s Spanish Diionary

Sir

ad

With Variety of single Plays and Pamphlets.

LONDON: Printed by A. Moore, for Captain Gulliver, near the Temple, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in.

[Price Two Pence.]

