Numb. 49.

The Grub-street Journal.

Thursday, DECEMBER 10, 1730.

"775 wot enough, wit, art, and learning join 3 quence, gives sufficient proof of the force of it; and Ithink, | of twenty Volumes, in as many hours, or, perhaps, less.

neak. let truth and candor shine,

In all ou fpear, or fh

Pore’s Essay on Criticism.

THE noise which the publication of the Meinoirs of our Society has made in the

world, having procured us a great number, both of Readers, and of Correspondents, it may be proper, at this time,

to fay some what, both to obviate the

objections of some of the former,. and

to give some information to the latter, and thereby to con-

tribute to the satisfaction of both.

Some of our Readers seem to be of opinion, that we

ought to publish nothing but what we approve of, and

are ready to defend. But in this we think they are under

a mistake; which, if followed by us, would, by depriving

the world of several learned controversial Papers, deprive

it at the same time of much diversion and instruction.

Whenever therefore any thing is advanced in any differ-

tation here published, which our Readers think wrong,

they are at liberty to oppose it; and if their objections

are drawn up in such a manner as is proper to appear in

Public, they certainly shall in this Paper: and in this we

only confirm a promise made in our 38th.

Besides, they are desired to consider, that in a Work of

this nature, it cannot be avoided, but that many things

must be inserted, either at the request of particular friends,

orat the desire of Persons, whom it is not proper to dii-

oblige; and this must needs be often done upon views, of

which cur Readers cannot possibly judge exaétly, for

want of being acquainted with all the concomitant cir-

cumstances.

As to our kind Correspondents, if they fend us any

thing which tends either to the promoting of lewd-

ness, or to the undermining of reveal’d Religion, they

must not expect that we will publish it. If any of them

think fit to attack the moral character of persons, the Wri-

teris desired to fub{cribe his name, and place of abode,

that we may know to whom to apply for further fatisfa-

ction, as to the truth of the faét. If those who are re-

flected upon are persons of a very good reputation, we

shall by no means ever be induced to contribute to

their defamation. But if their charaéters be very vile,

or they have been in{ftrumental in the defamation of others,

we shall not be very tender, with regard to {uch.

All animadversions upon stupid Authors will be very

acceptable: for we look upon all pretenders to wit or

learning, who, without either genius or language, under-

take to write books, as no better than common Cheats, who

would impose damaged goods upon the Public 5 and even

much worle than such, if their writings tend to corrupt,

not only the taste, but the morals ef the Reader.

f a Piece be written well in the general, we think it too

severe to expose a few particular mistakes, unless they are of

considerable consequence; and in this cafe it will be proper

todo it witha very tender hand. And as in this proceeding

no resentment on any personal or national account ought

to have any influence: fo when once a man has brought

a charge against another, he ought, if it be just, to de

fend, or, if it be wrong, to retract it.

This is mentioned with a particular view to the charge

of false Latin brought against Mr. T----- by CaLeponius,

Which. was printed in our 39th Feurval. The place in-

anced in, is the very firit sentence in his Oration,

Vix arbitrabar fore, Academici, exm, oui ex hoe dicendi

loca hodierno die verba fit fafurus, quidquam proferre

Wportcre, quod, &c. Where Carepoxivs humbly con

canta that J Ore, em — quidguam proferre opsrtere Was

bad Latin; and that it ought to have been, fore, ut is

errs guidguam pre ferre nec lle hateret. lo answer to this

charge Bur ANNO-Scorus tent us a Letter, which ve pub-

ithed in our 42d Tou nal: to which we wonder tiat Ca-

LEROXIUS never fent any repiy, which we think he was

obliged in honour to have dune. In that Leticr an appeal

ng made to Mr. Baviva, it drew

pute; who has conimunicated two Let

which he received from the dame hand:

bere follows.

im into ihe @Qli

b

tery: +

6 eS

‘ “a F

fa. 4 ‘ 4 , ’

the nrit oc wWaien

SIR,

] a Mot expect to fe fo serious a Vindieotion of Nir.

’ :; ; 7?

~$ Oration as appeared in your 424 7

{Or furel the on ass a6 4 ° sail ee.

wiy Sue Came didnot necdit. Hor it CaLebponivs,

at the jam:

fim. -p a031¢ siel

time Lie deemed ae ble Br euil

. y.9,°

+ fithby

Liat wrenwieiMiy S$ C10

no mean Specimen of his own. Look back upon his Let-

ter, that you may not think I injure him. You fee him

there surprised at first: then in a sweat and trembling

when be came to those words — But, behold, he recovers!

and atks without paffon, i.e. in pure Scotch meeknels,

whether this wert Fellow of a College is not very much to

blame? Ay, good People, whether he does rot really de-

Serve censure, not only tor /uch horrid outrage upon awhore

Nation, but because he understands his interest no better:

for /urely he intends (by {peaking upon Kirg CHARLEs’s

lives; otherwise be would not have fet his name to /uch

GRIEVOUS words. "Tis much none of the GRAVISSIMA ¢a-

pita should keep him from printing them. Who, O ye

Powers of Grudbstreet, is not now convinced, that we ought

may have a chance of being kindly furnifi’d with deets,

if we have none to carry us thither. But, Mr. Bavius,

my design was to offer one word to your consideration.

You fay, in the passage cited from SaLLust, Tamen in rem

Sore credens univerjos appellare &c. 8% frou'd have been ei-

ther expie/s'd or necefjari!y understood, to entitle it to a vin-

dication of Mr.T ’s Vix arbitrabor fore eum oportere.

Now if we may be decided by Vossius’s authority, the

accusative, in all the like instances, is understood before the

infinitive mood. This, he fays, Natura & ratio difiat.

See lib. de confiru&. ¢. xx. He instances in several paf-

fages where the accusative is express’d, as, Omnes bomines,

gui sEsE praefiare fiudent cateri: animalibus. Vocem lo

quentis ME audire vijus Jum. Si quijquam eff, gui placere

sE fiudeat bonis omnibus, and many others. All which

prove, I humbly think, that we may with good autho-

rity fay, with an accusative before the infinitive, Tamen in

rem fore credens SE: uniderfas appellare, &c. tho’ SALLUsT

in that pees did not think proper to insert it.

You show’d your impartiality very handlomely by print-

ing the last Letter: but your distinétion between dad Latin

and sale Latin, tho’ the latter was the charge upon a/mo/

every Page in the Oration, made me suspectt CaALEDONIUs

Was one of your Society He may boalt, if he pleates, of

being of the Number of the Execrab’e: 1 shall always reckon

him one of thoie whom 7y//y describes ex numera Di/er-

torum 5 and, if you don’t publish this, one of the Gru-

BEANS. I am

O27. yours, &9¢.

As to the other Letter from Briranno Scorus, we

have been desired by him, if we print it at all, to print

it at length; which we do not think proper to do, being

apprehenilive, that our Readers may be already pretty iear

tired with this dry critical altereation However we think

it necessary to mention one thing contained in this last Lete

ter, 772%. the true ttate of the cafe, which neither himielf

nor Mr. Bavius has given us exaétly before. It is ‘ Whe-

‘ ther the Infinitive eportere can tland after fore, or whe-

‘ ther it is not to be resolved inta a jubjunctive with guod

© or at? Whetheronecan't tay, ein ardit abar fore, opor

‘ tere cum---guidguam proferre, as Weli as, ut oporte ef cum?

This is no doubt, as he fays, the right conitruction of the

passage: but then it is our opinicn, that not one of the

places quoted by him is parallel thereto.

This long instance of our impartidity, tho’ tedious

perhaps to fom@of our Readers, will dowt dcubt be very

grateful to some of our Correspondents. Among whom we

25+ 1730.

ee

oe

ae

acknowledge our selves much ovliged to PHitrarciiaus 3

and should be more fo, if he would please to fend us, as he

promued, a continuation of the Criticifims upon

1 ,

MILTON,

ere printed in cur

| Bodh|

Witch 3

25th JouRNAL. ‘Yo leap trom

the firit Buok to the te. th we do not think very inethodi-

cal; and for that reason, we thall omit the firit part of his

1,2 J 7 Bu ¢ ! ' , art '- ssnbal aft,

‘nil acctcter. ut to {ic w our readineis to publ W ilale-

ver we can conveniently which comes from his hand, we

t shall tubjoin the latter pact of it: at the dame time defirmg

_ him, for the future, to write cach flogle Letter upon fume

"at ichuse, all t

taat had eniertained his Yafte in the perusal!

one particular subject and notin io millceilaneous a manner,

‘ . res .. ’ ,

the tranfitions trom Intron to TéRaience, and the like,

deeming to us not very natural.

C. * ££ £ & & x

I have often thought it of great ufe in the reading of|

ran Cr!

e thote passages that please and strike

ene prodigiovlly.

By this meins a man reads over again,

martyrdom in terms almost as strong as the Exg/i/> Litur.

gy) to Le no more than Fellow of a College as long as be|

to be fent to Aberdeen to learn Pn eloquence; I should: there’s nothing beyond it either antient or modern.

have us’d that more affecling term, Huma: tty ? where we|

i

For a book has some times a thousand pages, of which,

not above five are worth cemeeae or remembring<

nay, some times you may look over a Folio, without want-

ing your pen and ink at all. But then there are fomé

Authors, the best of the Greek and Latin, and-some few

modern ones, whom you read with such abundant plea-

fure, that there’s no knowing where to begin, nor when

to have done ex{scribing. "The whole works of such Au-

thors, and every part of them are as good as the marrow

or honey extraéted from the lower classes; with this dif+

ference, that tho’ they are a lump of sweetness, they never

cloy you, but rather the longer you eat, the farther you

are from being fatiated. ces Sees

There’s a passage in Terence, that I have written out

more than once, with great satisfaction and hearty laugh-

ing; and I think, for satyrical acuteness and frue be

is

3. where Demipuo advises with

in Phormio, AGI. Se.

“three Counsellors learned in the Law about diflolving his

| fon’s marriage. ad

Ds. Videtis quo in loco res bac fet. { feo:

Quid ago? dic, Hegio. He. Ego? Cratinus, cen-

Sitibividetur. De. Dic, Cratine. Cra. Mene vis?

Ego, quae in rem tuam fint, ea velim facias: mibt

Sic hoe videtur: qubdd te absente bie filius

Egit, refitui in intezrum, aguum cfe SF bonum:

Et id impetrabis, dixi. De. Dic nunc, Hegio.

Ego fedulo bune dixiffe credo: verum ita eft,

Quot homines, tot sententia: Juus cuique mos.

Mihi non videtur, gued fit falum legibu:,

Refcindi poffe: (F turpe inceptu eft. De. Dic, Crita.

Cri Evo amplius deliberandum cenfeo: [prede:

Res magna eft. Hy». Num quid nos vis? De. Feciftis

Incertior Jum multo, quam dudut.

Incertior fum multe quam dudum proves true upon tryal,

not only in the Law, especially the Common Law, which

goes by Precedents, and on that very account must be cor-

rupt and uncertain, but also in Phytick and Divinity. Are

you sick? call three Physicians, let PHerkssius himielf be~

ene (I mean Dr. M——p) you'l! find them of quite diferent

opinions; like the Hario/i in Pus prus,

Duid multa? variis diffident sententiis 3

Homini/que curam cura majore ageravant.

And in Theology the cafe is molt manifestly the fame. I

have been told, that when the affair of Trin. Coll. fir

began near twenty years ago, (‘tis yet far from beivg at an

end) Doctor B. wanted the opinion of three great Law-

yers upon it. Sir Eowarp Norruey was one; the other

two are I believe itil living. ‘They met; and after much

talk the oétor left them; and in his free manner told

them, They were like the three Lawyers in Terence. Sis

Epwarp having never read Terence’s Phormioa perhaps

in all his life, ask’d a friend * What the Duodtor meant?

‘ for he seem’d difpleas’d, and told them, They were like

the three Lawyers in Terence. Why, fayshe, he meant

That after all your debates he was, incertior mu/to quam

audum.

Before Tend my Letter, I must desire Dactyt, one of

your Puetaiters, to trar flate into Eng'ith (as weil, it he can,

as he did one of Marriats Epigrams in your 28th Foure

al) the following ‘Tetraltick.

Magne jpes altera Rome.

Altera foes Regis, Regni fpes altera, folo;

Principe Cambrorum, chore WILHELME, Minor 5]

Eto, quod es, fimilitque Patri, Fratrique fecundus:

Nemo tibi fimilis, nemo fecundus erit.

I am yours,

Dee. 1, 1730, PHILARCHAUS.

To oblice this Gentleman, Mr. Dactyt undertook this

tfc, tho’ much more dificult than the translation of the

Epigram of Martiat.

PvliAN Vagperie only leG, dear Witttam Thou,

Hl The other hone of King and Kingdom now,

Be what chou art, like thy majestic Sire 5

And {econd to thy Brother, high a:pire:

None ever then, for glorious aétr renown’'d,

Alike to thee, mone second thell be found.

Dear Bavy;

THE complements you made your brother Dues, some

time ago, induced me to read wis Poems. The Cri-

if

[Page 2.]

Show hinv to be thé Author of them.

aon

2h them of the truth of it.

ife

As, likewise, his exp/etizes: pag. 7.

His e//ipfes: pag: 11.

P: 14.

His motions: pag. 12.

'p- $e.

P 27.

might easily be acquitted: pag. 14.

——— is the Writer, and the Hero you

Of the fame stamp are some of his phrajes: pag. 26.

"Tis fervile fear, that does affright us r0/:

‘Tis that transforms a fkadow to a ghoft.

‘ And, ye protecting angels, that do fill he

Wait round the blejs'd, p* erve bim from all ill.

O'er bitls and dales my jaurney I purfucd,

Nor flack’ my pace, “till owry Carmel view'd.

His pleona/ms, &c. pag. 30.

How, the third day, he rose, and vanguish’d hell,

Subdued the grave, and death, victoriously.

Both life and death are in thy powerful hand

Both life and death obey thy great command.

Death is 2 debt, we all to nature owe

And not an evil, but when counted fo.

Id trace the heavenly bero to the trees

And foow how God, in man, expir’d for me.

Let poverty, or want, be what it will: —

| It does proceed from God, therefore’s no ill.

It is true, he found his mistake before he got 30 lines further;

and therefore prays: pag. 28

Since wea'th is but imaginary fame,

Since poverty is nothing Lut a names

Since both from God’s unerring hand are fent:

Lord, give me neither; give me but content.

To theie observations it may perhaps be objected by the

Author of his life, that Fe /earn’d jome of bis Grammar,

ard that be took his learning fajler than bis master could

give it him: but that, I take to be a charge, of which he

An extempore answer to a question of Mr. C

* when be was drejs'd fit for his part at the Play -house.

OU ask me, C--1L--¥, Who appears the brighter,

The Grub fireet Hero, or the Grub street Weirer?

Strange !.you shou’d ask, when you the secret know;

Look in the glass of fops, and there by G---

You are the brighter, when {fo nicely clad.

But look in books, in them you'll find a glass,

Which shows the Hero is the Wrirer’s Ass.

Aroivo's revenge on Dapune.

W HEN Puossus gave the kkittish Darune chace,

And graip'd a tree in his deceiv’d embrace:

The God, in pique prophetick, thus express’d

This certain vengeance, and the Nymph addrets'd:

Thou hatt, fair vegetable, “{cap’d my pow’r,

But to that form art chang’d in luckless hour;

Since thy coy pride, the God of wit declin’d,

Thy leaves dull curit shall witlets temples bind.

p- 13. --- te the boule the facrea Seer was come,

And with fapernal power approach’d the room.

me ——— —— the wolf quits his preys

And, lowing, with reluctance makes away.

p-19. The grafs and ground each cheerfully surveys,

Willing to fee which way the advaitage lays.

Fae eice, like themselves, envying him the horowr, will not al-

; A It is in vain to alledge

ae Royal bounty, or other externa! eviaences, to convince

) u I have tiierefore, as an humble

admirer of your Society, endeavoured to do justice to that

worthy Rhyme, by pointing out some of thoic iiternal

marks or charafers; which, with the other, will, I hope,

amount to a demonstration that the Pozms, which bcar

bis name, are his; atlealt, that they are such, as none

but bis Fellow-t2refoers ought to pretend to.

For, in the first place, —-some of his wards are such, 4s

none but your brother Bayxey’s ditciples would have

adopted, or apply'd as he has done, c. g. pag: 31.

The hungry fleed

Neighing, complazns be wants his daily feed.

Righteous and good art thou, Lord God ¢f hott;

And all thy works are wonderful, and juit.

But Iwould not be tedious; hoping that what I have

hinted will be sufficient to show, that Mr. Duck (as the Au-

thor of his Life is pleas’d to express himself ) wa/ks in no

ether filts than those of bis ovon genius, which has justly

verderd him the admiration of the present age.

I am your lovirg Cousin,

SIMPLE SIMON.

rs,

a

LONDON,

THrurspary, Dec. 3.

cei eda Letter, demin ting, &c

Sun, Now. 29. “ir. Samburne, Bailitt of Andover, re-

Yesterday Mr. Bar-

ret!, oi wicmiio.d, received another. P. == Mr. Glaver,

LLL TE lh. ln

’ at hea Roufe ig Spring gardin, Charing-cross, aged 63, the°

¢ Grocer in Fdeworth, and Tho Morris, E{q; of Bishop’s

Cattle in Shropshire, have also received the hike. D'7.——

As have the wicew of Juice Mitchel in \liddie Moor-

fields, and Mr. Bradj_y at the next door. D P.

Yesterday morn. a Negro boy, servant to Mr. Hyam, at

Borcham in Essex, being ttri¢tly examined, made a full con-

f.ifion of fetring fire to his Master’s barn, fables, &c. but

d nis his Knowing any thing of the many who threatned

the fame, &c. The fame day a man was commit-

ted to the County Goa! tor Surrey: 4 Letters were found

fewed upin he lining of his wastecoat. D F

We hear that Ben. Hayes, a person fent tor from Dun-

kirk, by a Gent. of Durham- yard, to give testimony con-

cerning the condition ot that harbour, having been promi-

fed a place, and alio money for hisexpences; he brought an

action in the Court of Exchequer, to putan endto which,

the Detendant dia last week pay him a fum of money in

full fatistaétion tor his said demands. C. Were all

promises of preferment in Church and State unperformed

made aciiorable, it wauld contribute much to the preserva-

tion of the memories of great miolvent Debtors, and of

the fives of their \ictle intignificant Creditors.

Yelierdsy a mar, very well dress'd, having a watch, 6

guineas, and some tilver in his pockets, was tound hanging

in one of his garters, on arailin Grosvenor-{quare. D F.

Laft week the feat of Sir John Trelawny in Cornwa),

was destroyd by tire, occasioned by some linnen being ieit

drying upon chairsin the kitchen. EP. W E.

Northamptox, Nov. 28. We hear from S. Ives in Hunt-

ingdonfhie, that there were round last week, by the work-

men emp.o)’d in making a new road Letween Wisbich

and March, in the [le of Elys 2 Urns; in the largest of

which were tones and ashes, avd in the othr about 300

pieces of silver coin; among which are not 2 pieces auke,

and by their date they appear to be 2600 years old.

EP. WE.

About 11000 persons have been qualified this term to

act as At.orneys or Sollicirors, in the several Courts of

law. 4 Ev. —— lam informed, that this ttanding army

of Atiornies and Solicitors will be augmented to the xum-

ber 16000, at least: a noble body of leyal regular Troo, s

We hear, that ror the becter discovering of the Iacen-

diaries, amcthod has b en found out to fer a private mark

on all paper, whereby any person who ules the fame may

ve ealily discovered. § 7.

Frivay, Dec.

Yesterday the R. H. the Lord Mayor entertained the

French Ambassador and his Lady, with several persons o1

distinction, at a splendit dinner at Fishmongers hall C.

They write from Appleby in Westmoreland, that Char

Reb:nion, Esq; had, Nov. 26. a Letter dropr at his door,

commanding him to wrap 40]. ina piece of cloath, and

tie the same to one of the pofts of the gall we, near that

town, &c. DP. From Biifiter in Ox‘ordthirve, tha

a Letter was dropt the 26th past, at thedvor of M:. John

Horr, a Grocer of thar place, demanding of him to lay

321!. 118. 3d. at the step of his door, &c. D F.

Yesterda Colley Cibber, E{g; the famous Comedian and

ComiceAuthor, was at Court, and had the honour to kits

his Majesty’s hand, on his being appointed Poet Laurcare, &«.

and was graciou:!y received. D P. The EP. 8 Ff.

LE. of fat. §. confirm the DP. but the C. and WE.

assert, that the :eport ot his having kiffed his Majesty’s

hand, is entirely without foundation. —--- Yesterday Mr.

Colley Cible-, the tamous Come tan, was {worn in‘o the

place of Poet Laureate. P —— The London Journal ca//s

him that celebrated ( omedian, and Author of several e-

cellent Plays; in which he speaks the judgment of the mcf

learned of our Society: but we all agree, that he isa Grana

aid consequent’y, a temous omidan, and a very Com:

cal suthor; and, we don't doubt, but that this new Pre

terment will make bim more juitly celebrated than ever.

SarurpDay, Der. 5.

Yesterday, at the Court of Common-Pleas, Weftm. a

cause was tried between Phil. Legare and his Wife, Plaine.

and - Hamilton, Def. who driving a one horse chaife,

met Mrs. Legite on horf:hack, and tho’ fhe made way

tor him, yet he drove up against her, and broke her leg.

The Jury found for the Plaint. 100 ], damage. C.

We hear, that Elfred Staples ot the Toner Temple, EG;

is made by Sir Will. Athburnham, Bar. one of the Deputy

Commissioners in the Alienation Office. P.

Sir Cha. Wager, Kone. one of the 1.. Commissioners of

the Admiralty, is chosen one of the Society for propaga-

ting the Gospel in foreign parts DY. —— J think an

Admiral a sore froper person to propagate the Gospel in

foreign parts, tian an Archbishop.

Yesterday morn. Moll. Harvey, who has been fo long

under confinement tor affronting Sir John Gon'‘on, &c.

was try’d detore the L.C J. Raymond, for keeping a dif-

orderly hou ein Shug-lane, and was found guilty by the

Jury; and ts to be brought up to the K. Bench bar next

term, to reccive sentence D P.---The D F. fays the was

tried last churicay morning.

Laft nigh, scour 8, died sudden'y, soon afier supper,

R.H. Ed. Southwell’, E{G; Principal Secret

Ireland, &c. and firit Clerk of the Privy

taing &e. LE.

A f:w days since the E. of Scarborough reccived a Let

ter, threatening, kc. S$ Ff. WE. ---- The Lady El. in

havins received a 2d Letter, caused the fum de

being 50 |. to be lett at a place appointed, ani

to waich: the money continued there 3 nizhrs

was {o hardy as to venture upon ir. SF. LE

report of her receiving this 2d Letter ts face. WE.

Yesterday came on a vial at Westminster-hal), bet weag

a Clergyman (some time since coaverted trom being a

Roman Catholick Priest) Plaint. and a Gentlewoman cf

Soho, Def. on an action brought for 500 |. against the Def

for slander, in saying, That the Phiint. had been guilty of

several attempts, with an intent to ravith a Girl of about

13 years of age, that was her relation; and also of feye,

raj other atten pts of the like nature upon other persons

which was proved upon the Det. But ia confirmation of

what had been said, fhe proved, that the Viainr. had, at fee

veral times, in particular on fundayy, been guilty of aver

wanton behaviour, unbecoming a person of bis funéion:

and the Det having the charaéter of a very discreet and

civilized woman, by {everal persons of distinction that ape

peared on her behalt, the Jury gave the Plaint. 1 s. damage.

§ F.— The Rev. Mr Gaver, Author of a book against

Popery, Plaint. against Mrs. Ready &c. WE.

Monpay, Dec. 7.

We tear that Charnock, Eig; eldest fon of Sir Pin.

fent Charnock, Bar. foie time since Knighr.of the Shire

tor the County of Bedford, flands Candidate to succeed

James Metcalf, Ef}; deceased, as representative for the town

of Bedford. P.

On fat. Count Watzdorff arrived here trom Dresden, in

qualityof Envoy excraordinary trom the K.of Poland. DP.

A fine gravel private wa'k is making for lor Maeily in

the upper S James’s Park, begmning at th: top of Cone.

ft tutiorshiil, and leading thence to the wall to Mr. Clay.

ton’s houfz, in Cleveland-court, through which her Mi.

jesty has a key. and another tor the pailage trom th. ftulle

yard into S, James’shoute. Ldid.

By Letters from Exeter we learn, that on fat. a fellow

surrender’d himself to the Mayor, and discover'd 170118

of his accomplices concern'd in fending threatning Letters

to several people, One of these inecndisries isin prison al-

ready, who is {worn against to have wrote foie of the

Letters. Jdid.

ary of State for

Council in G, Bri.

Jermain

Manded,

6 tellows

» Out None

¢ ommn' TES

Tuespay, Dec. 8,

Yesterday being the anniversary of the birth of the Prine

cefs Louis?, fhe received the com lime: ts from {everal pere

lons of quality and distinétion; and her Myyefty wes ples

fed to present her Highness with a fine gold Urn, of cv-

rious workmanship; the had alio several five pref nts trom

the Piincefles Royal, Amelia, and Caroline, C. ———

She then ente#’d into the 7th year o+ her age. D P.

We hear, that a person of some rank is arrived hee from

the Court of Spair, charged with jome in portant come

wiflion. P.

Norwich, Dec. ¢. On monday morning an snenvmous

Letter was found in the yard of M>. Burton. a Srewer in

this City, &c. One M .Walpoc, a Grocer ot New

Buckenham, :2 miles trom this City, received the same

day one of these Lettrs, Jdid.

Bristol, Dec. 5. We have a certain account from Bath,

that a Woman is committed there, on a violent iu'picion

of being concern’d with the Incendiaries. She i torm’d

the Justices, that 2 men gave her a guinea to carry a letter

to acertain person in that city, which fhe did 5 injurn ing

the said gentleman, that one of the men wanted a litle

finger, and the aiher athumb. Jé/¢.

They write from Northampton, that threatning letters

had been fent to Mr. Tho. Efvol.nes, Mr Burnes, and the

Widow Warts; that the Mayor having caus’d 45 Vagrant

to be taken up, had order’d exght of them to be publicly

whipt, and the other 7 to be kept in {ate Custody. D P.

The office of Principal Secretary of state for Ireland,

with a Salary of 5001. per Ann. is devolv’d on Ed. South

Well, Eig; eldest fon of the late R. H. Ed. Southwell, Eig

by virtue of a grant of his late Majesty K. George. Jdi4:

The Archbishop of Canterbury hath collated the Ret

Dr. Walker, to the Rectory of S. Mary Aldermary, worta

about 2001. per Ann. Jdid.

We hear that Lieutenant Kent, who Jately eferne? from

Prussia, lodges at present at Highgate. EP. SJ. WE.

WeDNESDAY, Dee. g.

Welfare wellaflured trom ey -witnetles of the f.<, that thé

welt end ot the harbour of Dunkirk has beea demolithed. and

the stones and rubbish thrown intothe channe’, wheredy'the

course of the current has been to much inte ruptt¢s oad

thereby wreck’d up with fand, thar vefles of the im.

burthen cannot enter the harbour without preat danger. @

—-This harbour muff needs be nore effectual y dermoid a

finte, according to this account, boto ca aid land, art vs

nature conf/pire again/} it. °

Mond night a Gent. was attack’d by 2 Srrecteaboert

over against Mercers Chaprel in Cheaonde,

\ett

tron whom

he received fevera! blows, when he drew his iwores and

bravely deteaded himilt: but some people appearing, the

[page 3.]

nta

the

and

che

jad

a(t

Othe

a

hers

om

and

cae

villians toade off, down the Old fury, altho’ several warch-

men were at their stands in fight, that never came to his

afitance. Ibid. --— The bufine/s of Watchmen seems to be,

vot to binder but to facilitate the escape of Villains: ana

I fear the greater part of them do not prevent, but pro-

mote robbing, as well as whoring.

The Kev. Mr. Samucl Greene, Fellow of Queen’s Coil,

Cam. . was yesterday induéted into the living or S.George

the Martyr, in Queen <-square, Ormond-street. D P.

Cha. Greenwood, Efgs first Clerk in extraordinary of

the most Hon. Privy Concil, is appointed one of the 4

Clerks in ordinary of the fame, in the room of Edward

Southwell, Eig; D ¥.

Yesterday morning the Lady of the R. H. Will. Pultney

Esq was fately delivered of afon and heir. Ji.

At Witham in Essex, 11 Vagrants were, last weck, tae

ken up there, who had threaten’d to fet fire to the house

of Mr. Will Everard; ¢ were publickly whipr, 3 fent to

the house ot correction, and 3 to the County gaol, ——-

And on sunday, a person well dress’d was ferz’d at Kelve

don, and there were tound upon him several threatning

Letters, a lift of all the Gentlemens names in the neigh-

bourhood, a brace of pistols, and: picklocks; and he was

committed to Chelmsford goal on monday. Jdid. —-—

His Majesty has been pleased to make a grant to Col. Char-

teris for al! his estate and effects forfeited to the Crown by

his late Conviction fer a rape, and last monday a patent

passed the proper {cals for that purpote. D F.

From the Pegasus in Gub-street.

The following verses fent to Mr. Gituiver being

communicated to us, are here printed as a second in-

stance of the wit and literature of those Gentlemen who

are allarmed at the publication of our Memoirs.

SIR, S. Gite’s, Nov. 11,1730.

HE villian will never be fond, take my word,

For whom you have offer’d ten guineas reward 3

But if you should find him, pray what’s your intent,

Or what can you make of the letter he {ent;

Or suppose he intended your Captain to kill,

There has many A Gooée loft his life for a quill:

And Guut, A di: inutive Goote will be found,

Pll lay you A Liver, i.e. A French Pound.

Then fet your self down, and compote you to rest;

Or taith you’!l be found but A Goose-cap at bett.

But if noth.ng will serve you, but taking the law,

You'll fee that in that he'll soon find out A flaw,

And fend you a Warrant for Scandal Magvatum,

Shall soon make you cry out Peccavi peccatum.

Yours, Cramspo Rimevs.

My Brother Foc having attack’d me in verse, and not

answer’d my last reply in his own numpers, I thought fit

to shew him how he might have done it.

Foc toa GuLLiver.

a

W HY how now, Gutuiver!

You are a faucy Curre,

To jest on my faverite Foc.

You fay you have wit,

But I cannot fee it,

Unileis ’tis to calla man dog.

7

In Grub-street you were born;

Your bad language I {corn;

For know, that I am better bred:

You have given the lie,

So take care, by the bye,

That I don’t break your H——r’s head.

In vain to pass you hope

For Apollo’s friend Pore,

The Town's not imposed on fo soon:

Men read, and cry the while,

This is none of Pope’s ftile,

No more than the man’s in the moon.

Bur, my honest fried Grup,

Pray learn to take a rub;

We're both of a trade, there’s no doubt:

It is for both our ends,

That we should not be friends,

So let us agree to fall out.

As Lawyers at the barr,

Are friends, tho’ they jarr,

take youa hiat from this letter:

Gaus, abuse me; Gaus, do;

And let me abuse you;

And fo we thall both fell the better.

Mr. SrepHex Duck ischofen a Member of our Society,

Dublin, Nov. 2°. Thursay lat Mr. Johnftos and Mr.

Porter weretricd tor the murder of Patrick Murphy, the

tryal faded from a in the morning till to atnigh’, when

the Jury brought thea: inguiity and this day they receiv’d

sentence to be hang’d and quarter’d this day forrnigat. C.

&c, 8. —— This week died Mrs. Yeats, aged 103, not in

death. P.

Cork, Nov. 24. Sund. last was taken and committed ro

the prison of this City, John Hoiley, the Gar dner, concern’d

in the barbarous muider of Lieut. S. Leger, aud bis >poute.

c. BF.

FOREIGN NEWS.

Trursvay, Dee 3.

Paris, Dec.g. M. ue Chyiac, newly appointed the

King’s first Physician, is to recenwe, according to custom,

a crown from each Physician and Surgeon in the kingaor,

of which “tis reckon’d they are 300,000 in number.

EP. WE.

Fripay, Dee. 4.

Vienna, Nov. 18. Weare atiu:’c, that a new firi& al-

liance is made between the Imperial, Rudian and Prathan

Courts. DP.

Stockko'm, Nov. 19. The Count de Caftej:, the French

Ambassador at this Court, has receives freth orders, upon

which he had the next day an audienec, to give notice to

his Swedish Majesty. to hold the Troops ttipuiated by Trea-

ties in such a readiness as to march at an hour’s waruing,

since all hopes of ageneral peace bezin to vanish. bid.

SaturDAY, Dec. 5.

Vienna, Nov. 29. We iearn trom Beigrade, that the Bae

fhaws of Widir, Bofnia, and Niffa, have teen carried to

Constantinople, and that the Bafhaw of the Morea has been

strangicd, on idufpicion of holding a correspondence with

the Venetians. DP. DJ. He was Sonin law to the ce

poied Sultan. P.

Tuespvay, Dec. 8.

Hambourg, Dec. 5. We learn trom Copenhagen, that

the Marg. de Pleo, Ambeffador from France, having com-

municated his last dispatches ro his Danish Majesty, orders

were fent to M. de Levenohr, first Secretary Of War, to

acquaint the prime Officers of several regiments, to put

their troops in a readine’s to march. D P

Books and Pampn.ets published in November.

* A Romance, intitled Bellaria, or the Fair Unfortu-

nate, &c. by Mr. Abrah. Langford, and others, 8vo.

* A pastoral Elegy on the death of Califta, &c.

* Augutta, or the City’s triumph: a Poem inscrib’d to

the R. H. Humphry Partons, Efg; &c. Pr. 4d.

* A congratulatory Poem, upon his Lerdship’s accession to

the Chair. By Edw. Ward. Pr. 1s.

* Authentick Memoirs of the life of Mrs. Ann Oldfield.

to. Preis.

* A Poem to the memory of Mrs. Oldfield: by a Gent.

Commoner of Oxford. Pr. 6d.

* The Proceedings at the Sessions for the City of Lon-

don, Oc. 14. ---- 19. Numb. VIII. Pr. 6d.

* The trial of Tho. Thompson and Lavinia Whitney,

&e. Pr. 6d.

* The History of Executions, Numb. VI. Pr. 4d.

Mijtcellanies by Dr. Swift, Alex. Pope, Eig; &c. in 3

vol. 12mo.

A critical examination of the late new text and Version of

the new Testament, &c. by Leonard Twells. Part I.

A summary of the Bible, &c. alphabetically disposed in

the words of Scripture, &c. by Ferdinando Shaw, M. A.

Theend and design of prayer, &c. in answer to L. Ro

chester, Blount, and L. Shaftsbury: ty G. Ben.

The present state of the Cape of Good Hope, &c. trans-

lated from the High German of Pet. Kolben, A. M. by

Mr. Medley.

The art of knowing Women, &c. translated from the

French, by Spring Macky, Gent.

A discourse concerning reason, with regard to religion,

&c. by Tho. Chubb.

The monthly Chronicle, for October.

The political state of Gr. Britain.

The new political state of Gr. Britain, N. ¥.

Modern Hift. &. by Mr. Salmon, N. 76. Vol. XIII. P. 4.

Rapin’s Hitt. of England, tranfl. by Mr. Tindal, Vol. 13.

Hiftoire d’Angleterre, par M. de Rapin, & N.34 com-

pleating Vol. VI.

Observations on the writings of the Craftsman. Pr. 6d.

An answer to the observations, &c. Pr. 6d.

* A Poem to his Majesty on Nov. 4. by Mr. Morland.

* Verses humbly inscribed to K. George, on his Bith-

day, by Eliz. Boyd.

* Silvia, or the Country Burial: a new Opera,

* Mainwario’s Wellcome to Ophelia, &c. a Poem.

* A new Norfolk Ballad. Pr. 6d.

ta qualify him to appear with a better grace as a Canui-

date for the Laurel, in case of anew vacancy 3 and to ob- |

Viate the objection for the future, which was lately made

against hin.

The Society adjourned the affuir relating to the New

CREATE be this diy ig’anight.

* The Windsor Medley, &c. Pr. rs.

The generous Projeétor, ora friendly Proposal to pre-

| vent murder, &c. by erecting an hospital for foundlings and

bastard Children, &c. Pr. 1s.

Ax anatomical and mechanical Essay on the whole ani-

ma! oeconomy, &c, by J. Cook. g vol. Pr. 105.

the leait impair’d in her denies, even to the huur of her$

An Essay on the origin of evil, translated from the Lae

tin of Archbishop King.

The Duty of keeping the whole Law, aSerm. by Wid.

Webtter, A. M.

Mr. Will. Caufton’s translation of Boetius.

The perjur’d free Mafon deteéted. Pr. 6d.

A new Model for rebuilding Mafonry, &c. by Pet. Far-

mer, Bq; Pr. 6d.

A colleétion of Precedents relating to the office of a Ju-

{tice of peace, &c. Pr. 2s. 6d.

The practicing Scrivener, and modern Conveyancer, &¢.

A treatise of tenures, in 2 parts. Fr. 4s.

Modern Cafes in law and equity, in 2 parts.

The laws of Sewers, or the office and authority of Come

miflioners of Sewers, Sc.

Chickens feed Capons, or a dissertation on the pertnes

of our youth, &c. Pr. 6d.

No Fool like the old Fool, or a pertinent answer to

Chickens, &c. Pr. 6d.

A Pig in a Poke, or a word or two to Patrons, &c.

Price 6d.

A short treatise of artificial stone, by Rich. Holt, Gene

Price 2s.

The description and ufe of the Globes, and the Orrery,

Se. by Jot. Harris. Price $s. 6d.

Humane virtues, or a colicétion of the rules of Serip

ture, &c. by Sam. Wright D.D. Price 1s. 6d.

Edmuudi Epite. Lond. ad Diocefin fuam altera epifco-

palis epittola, &c. Lating reddita ab Hen. Stephens A. B.

¢ Coll Mert. Price 1s.

The Perpetuity of Christ’s Church: a Visitation Ser-

mon at Lelcciter Aug. 20 by Rich. Grey M. A. Price 6 4.

The Invalidity of Lay Bishops prov’d from from Serip-

ture, &c. Price 1s.

An exaét Account of the late amazing Resolution in

Turkey, &c.

* Cato condemned, or the C2f and History of Self-

murder, &c. ty John Henley M A. Price 6 d.

* The Empirick, to which is added a World of Quacks,

Price 6d.

On Tuesday Stocks were,

South Sea 103 7 8ths, a4. South Sea Annuity 107

5 Stns. Bank 143 7 8th, a 4. India 190 7 8ths. Three

per Cent. Annuity g8. Million Bank 107 3 4ths. African

49, a 50. York Buildings 28 3 8ths. Royal Assurance

(100 1]. paid in) 94 3 4ths, a 5. London ditto (13 1,

paidin) 12 1 4th, a3 8ths. Bank Circulation 51. 12s,

6d. South Sea Bondss5]. 15 a16s. Indi ditto 5 1.18

aigs. English Copper 31. 10s. Welsh ditto 31.

Prices of Goods at Bear hey.

per Quarter

Wheat —— 26 to 30

Rye —— 16 to 20

Burley — 20 to 22

per Quarter

Hog Peas ——~ 12 to 18

Boiling Peas— 24 to 26

Pale Malt —- 24 to 28

Outs — 12 to 16 Brown Malt—zo to 26

Horie Beans 22 to 26 6 | Tares —— 20 to 23

Coals 28s. to 30s. per Chaldron.

Hops 1729 — 26s. to 39s. per Hundred.

Hops 1730 — 40s. to 60s. per Hundred.

Rape Seed 111, torr). 10s. per Laft.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

Ju Pubih’v,

THE Modern Maficb- M fer 3 or,

‘ Abe Universal Mufisan, Cone

Cal inv,

h 6d. An Tniroduction to Singing, afe

y cer fo easy a Method, that Peroag

iM of che meanest Capacnics may (ina

H short T.me) learn to fi: £ fin Tune)

muaee sary Song that js fet to Avwfih,

Il. Directions tor plsy:ng on the

Flute; with a Scale for Transpoling avy Picce ot Mark wo the ptu-

pereit Keys tur that Inff uments

Lil. The Newelt Method tor Learners on the Getman Flute, es

Improv’. by the greaelt Masters ot the Age. a

1V. Ioft'u@ions upon the Haucbey, io a more familiar Method

than any extant.; nae;

V. Toe Art ot Playing on the Violin; with a new Sca'e thewing

how w ttop cwery Fiat os sharp Note, exactly in Tunes and where

the Shitcs of he Ha.d should be made.

VI The Hapfichord Uli ftracd and Improv’d; wherein is hewn

the Icatian Manner of Fingericg, with oes of Lellons tur Beginne:s,

and tho’e who are alieady Proficients on that Infrumenc and the

O-gan; with Rules tor attsiming to play at Thorough Bals.

in whith is included,

A jarge Colle@ion of Airs, and Leffuns, adapied co the several In-

ftiuments, exetraéted trom the Works ot Mr. Handel, Bononcivi,

A.bdca@ni, and other eminent Mafers.

‘ith a briet Hilkory o: Mafiits wherein is relared the several

Changes, Addidons, and Improvements, from ats Oiigia co this pre-

fent Time.

7) wh'b is added,

A Mefial Di@ionary, expiaining tuh Gretk, TIatin, lalian and

French Words as genera! y occurin Mfefck.

Cunuusly adora’d with Cuts rep efenang the Manner of Performing

on every Infhument. Finery eograw'd or above 320 | bates,

Engtav’o, Printed, and Sold at the Printing ‘thee in Bow Chetch

Yard, Go dor. Prue 758.64.

Where may be had, Books of Infiruétons tor any Gngle Instru-

ment, tar exceeding any ethers extanr. Prue ts. 6d.

N.B You ure dehr'd co take Notice the whole Volume and the

Bookset Tftruct 4s loracy tinie Latrument, are printed in Royal

Chavo, Wich & “SWC tom any ober in the kind yet publish'd,

[Page 4.]

This Day is published,

Numb. Ili. (Prica 35. 6d.) of

WW UNIVERSAL HISTORY, from the earlieft Account o; Time

to the present, which comprizes not only the General History

vt tae World, but a fo that of every particular Empire, Kingdow

and Siate frum its nift Founsation all ts Diflolution, or wo the pre-

fent Time; with an exa& Account of the Migrations and Conquests

of every People, the Succeifions asd Rei ns of their refpcéiive

Princes, their Religion and Government, Customs, Leatning, &c.

The whole immediately excrafted trom the Oiiyinal Authors,

and illuftraced with necessary Maps, Cuts, Cnronolopical and other

Tables.

The two first Numbers contain the Cosmogony or the Creation

of the World; the Formation or Man, and the Situationo: Paracile;

the Fall; the Chronology trom the Creariv. to the Deluge stated;

the History of the Antediluvian Patriarchs; the Prophane History

before the Flood; the Deluge; the Siace ot the Antediiuvian World;

and the Cha iges made in the Earth by the Deluge; an Enquiiy con-

cerning the Situation of Mount Arrarat, and the various Opinions

abour it; the Chronology trom the Deluyeto the Departure ot Abra-

ham irom Haran statea the History ot Noah, after the Flood 5; and

of his Descendants to Abraham; the History o1 Sanchoniatho after

the Floud; the Removal ot Mankind from about Mount Arrarat to

the Plain ot Shinaar; the Building ot Babe/; che Contuion of Tongues,

and the Origin of Speech.

The third Number contains an Account of the Dispersion of Man-

kind, and the Planting of Nations in the two frft General Migrau-

ons; the Origin ot Civil Government; the E‘tadiifime rc ot the tirft

Kingdoms, and the History of Egypt co the time o: Alexander; in

which is given @ particular Description of it, and an Accounc of its

Antiquuy, Governmea,, Laws, Reiigion, Cuttums, Arts, Learning

and ‘Trade.

Printed tor J. Batley in Pater-nofter Row, E. Symon in Cornhill,

N. Provost in Southampton Street in the Strand, J. Crockare againg

St. Dunstan’s Church in Fleet-Areer, T. Osborne in Grays Inn; and

Sold by T. Payne in Pacer-nofter Row.

" N. B. The Pubitck may be assured, thar all the Difficulties which

have hiherco retardes the Progrets of this Work are scinoved, and

thar ic will be continued regularly for the fame.

This Day is pwhlished,

PROPOSAL §,

For Prixvixe by Sumscaiprion,

HE NeGcorrarions and Embpasstes of Sir THOMAS

R@®k, Kot Privy-Counellor to King CHARLEs I. and

Chanceilor of the most Nuble Order of the GARTER. From tie

Year 1620, to the Year 1644. In which Time he was Embafla-

dor Extraordinary trom King James I. and King CHAn es [. co

the Grand Signor, the Emperor, the Kings «f Poland, Sweden, and

Denmark, and to the Principal EleStors ot the Empire; as allo to

the Dyct of Ratisbonne. The greatest Part designed by himielt ro

be mace pudlick. To which will be added, many others, which—

he intended .ot to publish, as being of too private a Nature to be

miade pudlickin Times of Jealouly and Diftra&tion. Interfperfed with

a large Account ot the Embafhes of Sir Rosegt ANsrTRUTHER,

Sir Isaac Wake, Sip WiLLiaM BoswELL, Sir DupLey CaRLe-

rox, the Lord SeupAmone, the Earl of Lericesrer, the Mott.

learned and Ever- memorable Earl of ARUNDEL, and other Priuci-

pal Mimfters of that Time. To which are added, Authentick Ad-

vices, Original Powers and Instiudiions, Treaties of Peace and ot

Commerce, and many Rare and Valuable Pieces, of gisac Ule to

clear up the History of that Important Period. All irom their Ori-

ual Lerters and Papers of State.

LETTERS, fays my Lord Bacon, written from wife Men, are,

of all the Wirds of Man, in my Judgment, the best, for they

ave more nacural them Orations and publick Spee hes, and are

more advised than Conferences or present Speeches. So again,

Levrers of Affairs from fuck as manage them, sr ave privy to

them, ave, of al; others, the best Instru&tions for History, and to

a diligent Reader the bef? Hiflories in themfeiwes.

Baconi Opera, Vol. 11. p. 463.

Sub titulo De Aug. Scientiar.

N.B. This Work, ‘tiseomputed, will make five Volumes in Folio;

and no more than s00 will be prinsed, at 18 s. only each Volume;

and it upwards ot 400 be tubleribed tor, the Wonk shall be rencer’d

Mill cheaper to the Publick, and allowed for in :he second Payment.

ProPosas are deliver’d gratis, together with some Account ot

the WORK, and a Specimen of a few of the Lerrens, by S.

RicHARDSON in Salisbury Court, Fiat Steer, and $, PALMER and

I: Hugeonson in Bartholomew Close; and by the rollowiny Bock.

edlers 5 viz.

Melt. Knaplock, Innys, and Rivingten, in St. Pavl’s Church-yard;

Mell. Berte{worth, and Hitch, in Parer-Nofter Row; Mefl. Favram,

Strahan, Brotherton, Hinchcliffe, and Waltoe, in Cornhill; Mefl. Pem-

berton, Grfling, Woodard, Wotton, Clay, Brown, Gilliver, and Cogan,

near Tempic Bar; Mefl. King and Stage, in Weftmiifter Hail; Mr,

Clements, at Oxtord; Mr. Crowafield, at Cambridge 5 Mr. Lezke, at

Bath; and Mr. Mc Euen, at Edinburgh.

This Day is published, Price 4d.

The Hisvory of Exrcurioxs, Numb. VI,

{ To be continued. }

Eing acompleat Account of the tour following Malefa@ers exe-

cuted ac Tyburn, November 16, 1730, viz. Thomas Rivers, tor

bioule-breaking; Reherc J hofon, Hugh Morris and James O'Bryan,

gui the 5 young Highwaymen taken at Windsor, and faii to have

a design tw rob Hey Majesty. Allo of John White, execured ar Win-

¢anton for Marder; George Bdgood, at Gloucester, for a Riot;

John Chappello, at York, for Horse-stealing 3 Absoham Powell, at

Leeds, tor Tenter-cutting. ToOwhich isadded, A Letter to aCleigy-

man, concerning the Cafe of Prison under Sentence of Dea'b.

Occasioned by many Criminals dying in an cbfinate, hardened Stare.

Together with fom. Observacions on the Incendiaries, and felonious

Lester writers; and the Substance of the A& ot Parliament and Pro

Clamation relating thereto. write

Note, The next Number will contain a Lift of the Criminals

transported trom Newgate; and an Index to the Whole. Printed by

R. Newron, arSc. John’s Gate, and fold by the Booklcdersin Town

and Couniry. hs

Where may be had the former Numbers. Alio

I. Tea, a Poem, or Ladies into China Cups. Price 6d.

II. The Lives and Amoours of Queens and Royal ALifrefes 5 wich

some Anrquities of Popes. Price 18. 6d.

pents and Eniects.

This Day is published,

For the Use of Schools, and fold by Nic. Prevutt and Co. ever against©

Southampton Street in the Strand. 7 ’

Omenclator Trilinguis, ufiativra rerum Nomina conunens; in

quo, prater Genus & LDeciinationem Nominum, notatur etiam

Syllabarum quantitas. Acjiciur Verburum adje@ivorum Sylvula, una

cum Proverbiis mifcellaneis ducentis & duodecim. In Puevorum

ingenuorum gratiam, qui cum Latnis Gallica conjungum. Editio

quarta, Autor & Emendatior. 8vo. Londini 1731.

A new History ot England in Engiith and French, by Question

and Answer, excraGted trom Mr, Rapin Tnoyras. 12mo. The fame

Book in English separate. '

Sesenze & Mott Racevoli: or, the Amusing Inftre&or. Being

a Cuile@ion of fine Sayings, fimart Repartees, &c. trom the most ap-

proved Italian Authors. Wich an English Tranflaion. 12mo.

Where may be had,

Diétionaire ce la Bible par Calmet, Nowvelle Edition ou le Supple-

ment a éré range en fa place. Tome 1{t and 2d. 4to.

Les Ocuvres de Fonvenelle in tol. & in quasto, en trois Volumes,

enrichis de figures, de Vigneues, & de Culs de Lampe, gravcs par

Bernard Picare.

Les Avanures de Telemaqve en 2 Vol. in 4to. enrichie de figures,

de vignertes, & de Leceres giifes, par differents b ns Maitres, avec

des notet H storigues.

Memoires de la Vie ce Theodore Agrippa d’ Aubigné Ayeul de

Madame de Maintenon, eciits par luy meme, avec les Memaires de

Frederic Afamrice de la Tour, Prince de Sedan, une Relation de la

Cour de Fiance par Mr. Piolo, Ambaflaceur de Vexile, & 1’ Hifteire

ae Madame de Macy. 2 Vol. i2mo. 1731.

Hiltoria Literaria; or an exa@ and early Account of the most

valuable Bo. ks publift’d in the several Parts of Europe.

Flortferis ut apes in faltibas omnia ibant,

Oninia nos ttidem. Lucret.

Tome I. With a compleat alphabecical Index, and No. I, II. Il.

.V. V. and Vi. lepavate. Seimons {ur divers Texies de I’ Ecriture

Satnte par Charles Bercheav, Patteur de l'Egiile Francoife de Londres.

Seconde Editiun augmenteé de deux fermons dans le premies volume

& da ‘Tome second cniier, 2 Vols. 8vo.

This Day is publisen,’

The Second Edition ( Revijed and Corrected, with large Additions by

the Author) of

Compend.ous and Methodical Account of the Principles of Na-

tural Phiolophy; as explained and iliuftrated in che several

Courfes ot Experiments perform’d at the Academy in Lie ‘Tower-

street. By BEN] AMIN WORSTER, A, M.

Printed tor Stephen Austen, at the Angel and Bible in Sp Paul’s

Church-Yard, 8vo. Price 4 s.6d.

W here may be had,

t. A General Syflem ot Hydroftaticks and Hydraulicks, Philofo-

phical and Practical, illuftrared and explained by Fifty large Copper

Places. In 2 Vols. 4tu. Prices]. sos,

a- The Werks ot the Right Rev. GEORGE BULL, D. D. con-

cerning che HOLY TRINITY, &c. 2 Vols. 8vo. Price 108.

3. The FEMALLE PIiIYSICIAN, containing sll the Diseases in-

cident to that Sex, in Virgins, Wives, and Widows, &c. By JOHN

MOW BRAY, M. D. 8vo. Price ¢ s.

Quk publishen,

The Third Edition of

HE SPELLING DICTIONARY: Or, a Col!e&ion of all the

common Words made use of in the English Tongue, caretully

compaied with the oripinal Languages trom whence they are derived,

and marked as th:y are to be pronounced. By T. Dycne Price

rs. 6d, Suld by R. Ware, ac the Bible and Sun in Warwick-Lane.

at Amen Coruer-

Also may be had at the same Place,

1. The large House Bibles iolio with the fix Maps of sacred Geo-

grapliy, and a brief Concordance for the more easy finding out of

the Pieces theretn contained. By J. DownaAme, B. D.

Bound in Calf Leather 11. 6s. per Book

And with M. Scurc’s Curs at 21. 5s. Ditto

Ona tine Paper with Cuts 31. 38. Ditto

2. A Description of 300 Animals, viz. Beasts, Birds, Fishes, Ser-

W ith a particular Account ot the Whale tfhery.

Exeracied out of the best Authors, and adapted co the Use of all Ca

pacitics, especially to allure Children to read. Illustrated with Cup-

per Places, whereon is curiously enyraven, every Beast, Bird, tilh,

Serpent and Infect, describ’d in the whole Book, price as. 6d.

3- impartial Churchman: Or, a fair and candid Representauon « f

the Excellency and Beauty of the Church ot England. Together

with an earnetit and affectionate Address to the Protestant Difleniers.

By Robert Warren, D.D. Price 3s. 6d.

4 A Treatise ot Architecture, with Remarks and Observations by

thar excellent Malter thereof SEBASTIAN Lb CLERC, Ant. ortue

Empire, Deligner aud Engraver of the Cabinet to the l.te French

King, and Member of the Acacemy ot Aris and Sciences. Necetla-

ry for young People who would apply to that noble Art. Engiaved

on 181 Copper Plates. By John Sturt. Translated by Mr. Chambers,

Price 155.

s+ Lradetman’s Guide, Containing a Lift ot ail the Stage Coaches

and Carriers; with an Accoung of ail the Fairs and Market Towns

in Engla:d. Price 1s.

LONDON: Printed by A. Moore, for Captai

This Day is publised,

New SYSTEM of ARITHMETIcK, Tlicotical and PraGica}.

“\ wherein the Science of Numbers is demonitrated ina Regular

Course trom i'é first Principles, thro’ all the Parts aid Branches there-

of; etrher Keown two the Aucients. of owing to the Improvements

or the Moceros, The PraGice and Application to the Affairs. f Lite

and Commerce being also tul'y explained; fo asto make the whole

a complete Sysrem of Tueory, tor the Purposes of Men ot Sci-

erce; and of PRaActTicr, for Men ot Business,

By ALEXANDER MALCOM. A M.

Teacher o: the MATHEMATICKS a Aberdeen.

Printed for J. Ossonne and T. Lone@Man, in Pater-Nofter-

Rows F. Fayram, and E. Syacow, at the Royal Exchange.

Where may be had, written by the [ame Author,

A TREATISE of Musick, Speculative, Pra&ical and Historical;

Containneg av Explication of the Philosophical and Rational Grounds

and Principles thereof; the Mature and Office of the Scale of Ma-

sick; the whole Art of writing Nores, and the general Rule ot Com-

pobtions With a particular Account of the Ancient Musick, and a

Comparilon thereof with the Modern.

ee ee ee et ens Ce -ese le

n Guiuiver, near the Temple, where Letters

This Day is published,

In Two Volumes in 8vo; the First on the Solids, and the Seep» F,

on the Fluids, ops

AN Anatomical and Mechanical Eifay on the whole ANIMAL OECONOMY in one View 5 wherein is thewn

the most wonderful Conduét o! Nature in all the Phenom ha

attending humane Bodics: Containing a new Theory of Animals, ani fully explaining the my fterious Dogtrine of Ane

malcula in Semine Masculino; with the true Nature and Mode

of Generat on, Conception and Nutrition of the Fetus, The

fe of the latefinum Caecum. Ot the BreafsinMn. The

Nature, cause and Growsh of the Hair, and why diferent

in diffe:ent Parts of the Body; with a Mechanical Account

of Nutrition how perform’d in an Animal Body. Of Pujp

Pleasure; and many such like Curiosities; after a very caly,

plain and philosophical Manner. Nec«flary for all Lovers of

Knowledge, particularly young Students in Anatomy, P|) y-

sick, and Surgery. With an Alphabetical Catalogue of Ay.

thors Names referred to on several Occasions in this Treatif2,

By J. COOK, Student in Physick, and late of the Collese

in Edinburgh. ‘

Printed for W. Ateadows, at the Angel in Cornhill.

Fuk Publish’d,

THE Life of MAHOMET. Translated from the French O;i-

ginal written by the Count of Boulainvilliers Author of the }rg.

fent State of France, and of the Hiforical Memeirs thereto iubjoined,

*Tis trae, Compoling is the Nodbler Part,

But good Trauslation is no easy Art. Roscommon.

Printed for W. Hinchliffe, at Dryden’s Head under the Royal-Ex-

change.

‘Gur pubtither.

A Correction of Voyages, in Four Volumes in O&ayo,

Containing,

I, Captain WiLLiam Dameren’s VOYAGES round the World:

Describing particularly the Coasts and IMands in the Eaftand Welt.

Indies. The South Sea Coasts of Chili, Peru and Mexico. The

Countries of Tonquin, Achin and Malacca. The Cape of Good

Hope, New-Holland, @e. »

1]. The VOYAGES of Lioxen Warer: Giving an Account of

his being left on the Ifthmus of America, amongst the Indians, and

ot their Treatment ot him; with a patiiculat Description oj the

Country, &c. Also The Natural History of those Paris. By a l'ele

low of the Royal Society. And Davis’s Expedition t the Goldca

Mines.

Ill, A VOYAGE round the World: Containing an Account of

Capt. DamPreR’s Expedition into the South Seas tn the Ship si.

George; with his various Adventures and Engagements, @c, ‘Toge-

ther with a Voyage from the Welt Coast of Mexico to Belt Inu,

By W. FunnetL, Mate to Capt. Dampier.

IV. Capt. CowLey’s VOYAGE iound the Globe. —

V. Capt. Suanp’s Journey over the Ifthmus of Varien, and Ex-

pedition into the South: Seas 7

VI. Capt. Woon’s Voyage through the Streights of Migelian,

VII. Mr. Rosents’s Adventures and Suffuiings amongit ta

Corfairs of the Levant: His Description of the Archipelago-'flanis,

be

Uluftrated with Maps and Draughts: Also several Birds, Fithes,

and Plants, not found in this Part of the World; curiously Engra-

ven on Copper- Plates. tay

Printed for JaMes and JoHN KwaProw, at the Crown in &,.

Paul’s Church-Yard.

Fuk Wudblished,

Dedicated to AdrssEvizaseTH Prarr, eldef? Damghter of ti late

Lord Chief Justice Prate.

L’ Art de Connoitre les Femmes.

THE Art of knowing WOMEN: Or, the FEMALE SEX diffe2ed;

in a faithful REPRESENTATION Of their Virtues and Vices,

under the toilowing twenty Heads, viz.;

1. General Ideas concerning Women. 2. Of their Education. 3.

Of their Self Love. 4. Of the Lise they chufe. 5. Of the Religion

and Devotion of Women. 6. Of Love and fealouly. 7. Of Conu-

nence and Chaftiry. 8. Of Marriage, 9. Of the Wit and Learning

of Women. 10. Of their keeping Secrets. 11. Of Beauty, Drels,

and Fashions. 12. Of the Falhood and Deceit of Women. 13. Of

their Calumey and Detraction. 14. Of their Flattery and Diflim-

lacion. 15. Of their Friendship and Hatred, 16. Of their Envy and

Malice. 17. Of their Covetoufnels and Prodigality. 18. Of their

Piideand Ostentation. 19. Of the Violence of their Passions. 20

An Historical Diflercation concerning Adultery and Divorce.

What, ever since the Golden Age was done,

What Woman-inind desires, and what They fhanj

Rage, Palfiens, Pleasures, Lwpesence of Will,

Srali this Sacirical Coileion fi/l.

Draypun’s JuVenat

This Work was poblish’d at the Hague last Year, under cne teigres

Name of the Chevalier PLanre Amour: (but the real Author is

said co be a celebrated Peer of Great Britain) and isnow faituuy

tramsiaced from the French Original, with Improvements,

By SPRING MACKY, Gent.

Printed and fold by E.CurnLn and W-Levenruarp, direct y

over-again{ft Natherine-street in the Surand; 'T.Payae at che Croy

in Ivy-iane, near Pater-Nofter Row; J. BRorwen TON next (°¢

Fieece Tavern in Cornhill; and J. JacRSoN ia Pall-mall neai o%

james’s Palace, Price 4s. in Calfy lain Bound 35. 6d.

The best WATER in the World,

So called by those who have experienced it to be so, for the 17

or auy Kehing Humours.

IT hath been taken anwardly tor the KING’s-EVIL.

to cure sore Eyes, or any other Sores, Ulcers, o1 Eiftuld de

preserved several from having their Limbs cui of, when au

means have taved.

The Price on the Bottle, One Shilling and Six Pence.

Ic is co be fold ar Mfr. Gowdge’s, at the Cafiie in Westminster-#}

Afr. Radfora’s Voy Shop, artic Roteand Crown over-againf>

men’s Church-Yard in the Strand, near Aruncel-Sitret

at Mrs. Raw’s at the Nerih-Encrance or the Royal Exchange, over against Bartholomew-Lane.

LONDON: Printed by A. Moore, for Captain Gulliver, near the Temple, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in: As also at the Rainbow Coffee-House in Cornhill, and John’s Coffee-House in Sheer-Lane, near Temple-Bar. [Price Two Pence.|

