The Grub-street Journal.

Thursday, OCTOBER 8, 1730.

Numb. 40.

Haud facile emergunt, quorum virtutibus obftat

Res angufta domi, Juv. Sat. Il, 164,

the three following Pieces were fent to the Society from

unknown hands.

9 Mr. Bavius Secretary of the Society of Grub-street.

Worthy SIR, Scpt. 20, 1730.

RHE great love I have for poetry, invi-

ted me to peruse a little Collection o

Verses written by Stephen Duck, whos»

we find, lately exercised an instrument

very different from a pen; and is, I be-

lieve, the first Modern who has happily

invoked the Mules in a Barn.

The regard which was paid him by a learned Peer, and

the bounty which her Majesty was pleased to extend to-

wards him, prove that the {pirit and generofity which

once infpix’d Maecenas, are not totally extinét among us.

But notwithstanding this extraordinary instance, ‘tis

well known that very few wealthy men give due encourage-

ment to Letters, when they have no other recommenda-

tion than mere merit.

Among those who have been disregarded upon this oc-

evion, isa Friend of mine, a person, who, tho’ he had

fio better education than our celebrated Threfber, (occa-

fioned by his father’s dying young, and leaving him in

indifferent circumiftances) and has constantly been em-

loyed in atrade; has yet, by dint of poring over books,

rd by an.iniatiable thirstafter learning, made no inconsider-

able progress in the antient languages, and one or two of the

modern; attain’d to some knowledge in the {ciences;

and distinguished himself a little in one branch of Lite-

mature. But notwithstanding all these advantages, he yet

has not once met with the least incouragement from Per-

fons of the higheit quality and figure, to whom he had de-

dicated some Pieces, which were received with no small

applause by the Publick.

Vex’d at his ill success, he not long since attempted to

breathe his fighs in poetry, tho’ he had devoted but very

few of the moments he stole from business to the Mufes.

The vertes he made on this occasion, were more imme-

diately suggested by the disappointment he met with from

2 Nobleman, who is generally said to patronife Letters:

but had he address’d the excellent Lord Carrergrt, I

am perswaded he would have had no occasion to despond.

His buriting into poetry, if I may be allow’d the ex-

prefion, puts me in mind of that Person, who though

bors dumb, yet upon seeing his Father going to fall

afacrifice to the resentment of his implacable Conqueror,

was inilantaneously endued with the faculty of f{peech.

He has made about 300 lines, but having no friend to

aflitt his wants, and being oblig’d to tug at the oar ina

kicral sense (being on board a little vedic!) the poem is at

aftand. If some parts of it, which he has given me

kave to transcribe, are thought worthy of your Paper, they

are at your service.

Ye Comriaint, a2 Lyric Rhapsody, address'd ta bis Ge-

nius, by JAMES Drake.

a See, tcizing principle, my breast,

And ruffle its soft calm no more:

hou’rt now an irksome, hated cueft,

Whole fiiles no longer I implore.

Be gone, with thy delufive joys,

or tempt me to invoke thy itay 5

atal, as once the Syren’s voice

Io Sailors on the trackless way.

Why, {weetly whispering in my ear,

Didft thou to learning’s paths invite?

tter, O science! bought too dear,

Pd wanted till thy radiant light.

_After comparing himself modestly to Co/umbas, and ta-

in€ Notice of the different fate that attended them; that

licoverer having been amply rewarded with gold, and

miclf having met with no manner of encouragement;

Proceeds,

Not that ambition me feduc’d

-_ To toar on Fortune’s painted wine;

Par humbler motives {trong induc’d

+ To haunt, unvex'’d, she Mule’s trring.

Some rural cott, where angel-peace

Mild o’er the foul her influence sheds$

Where pleasures flow with sweet increase,

And airy sport on rofy beds.

The dimpled stream; the winding shade;

The lawn in cheering verdure dreft;

Th’ aspiring hill, the op’ning glade;

Soft themes ! should pleasing thoughts fuggef.

Rich in my self, I'd frown on gold,

And far the treacherous gugaw throw:

With pity’s melting-eye behold

The idly-buftling crowd below.

But now recollecting, that he was talking of impoffibili-

ties (considering the ill success that had always attended

him) he breaks into thé following rapture, which you will

perhaps think tolerable.

Ah me! in what romantic feats,

Does my deluded fancy ftray:

Too transient, visionary {weets,

That sudden gleam, then fade away?

So to poetic mind in sleep,

Gay habits, coaches, guineas rife:

Break but the charm, the glitt’ring heap,

And all the wild creation dies.

After making a compliment to Mr. Pope, he goes on.

When Grecians liv’d, auspicious times!

Glory inspir’d the sacred rage:

How faint the Mule in 4/4/0n’s clime

Now glimmers in th’ enervate page!

Then {culpture wak’d the mimic ftoné;

With nature’s tints the canvas glow’d 5

Sad Orpheus breath’d melodious moan;

Ana C/io taught the founding Ode.

He afterwards speaks of the strong paflion which men

had then for learning.

No grov ling views cou’d then controul

The Sage’s high-exalted gutt;

Once fir'd, he’d fly from pole to pole,

To flake his nobly-ardent thirit.

So to the radiant source of light,

Allur’d by the refulgent blaze,

Foze’s bird directs his rapid flight,

And on the God does ftedfait gaze.

After taking notice of the honour that was paid to Poets

in Greece and Ita/y; and how after the neglect of arts, the

Roman Empire was over-run with vices of every kind, he

proceeds.

Be it, O science! radiant maid,

To thy immortal honour told,

That whilst thy heavenly diétates sway’d,

Fair Virtue triumph’d over gold.

But when thy smiles no more cou’d charm,

And Romans flighted thy embrace;

Vice blazon’d forth her painted form,

And weeping Virtue left the place.

Then down finks thy devoted head:

And Vandals to complete thy doom,

Wide o’er the world dire havock {pread 5

Thy fanes destroy; and all is gloom.

I should exceed the limits of your Paper, were I to

transcribe any farther: fo shall break off with afluring you,

that what 1 have told you concerning the education of

my Friend is matter of fact; of the truth whereof you

should certify your self, were not you Journaliits a kind of

invisible Gentlemen.

I am, dear Bavius,

Your friend, and old correspondent,

Ricuarp Lovg-merir,

On Stephen Duck.

¢ ~ Duck! preferr’d by bounteous Queen

‘To cackle Verse on Richmond Green:

Wild Duck in genius! You on high

Soar with bold wing: our rhyming fry

Are Tame opes, and not made to By.

All glorious Souls, who ¢’er have been,

Some lesser Beings usher in.

One hardly worthy to unloofe

The leathern thongs that tye thy shoes,

We judge, did fix his eye on thee

In his Duck Iffand prophecy:

Where, now fulfill’d, we fenfeexplore,

Dark (as it shou’d be) all before.

Thy notes our ears with pleasure treaty

So very wild, so very {weet:

More than Amphion thot haft done,

And raised walls, which prove thy own.

This Sreruen, if there’s faith in news;

Preferment’s heaven open’d views:

And yet, by Sovereign goodness own’d,

By Criticks hands escapes unfton’d,

O fent in mercy to these times! |

With vigour tbreb our modern Rhymes:

Much Stalk from little grain withdraw,

And fave our pence in buying Straw.

No chafty Bard dare thee assail 5

There is no fence against a Flail.

Our dangerous State we all discerny

And fetch Diétators from the Barn.

To Mr. Steruen Ducr, the celebrated Wilt/ire Post

and Threfker, on his late Preferment by ber Majesty.

1.

LD Homer, tho’ a Bard divine,

(If not by Fame bely’d,)

Stroll’d about Greece; old Ballads fung;

A Beggar liv’d and dy’d.

2.

Fam’d Mi/ton too, our Briti> Bards

Who as divinely wrote,

Suing like an Angel, but in vain 3.

And dy’d not worth a Groat.

3.

Thrice happy Duck ! a milder fate

Thy genius does attend:

Well hait thou threfh’d thy barns and braing

To make a Queen thy friend!

Ae

O! may fhe flill new favours grart,

And make the Laure/ thine!

Then shall we tee next New-years Ode

By far the /a/ outfhine.

Our President, who is no Friend to Punfters, desires

our Correspondents, if they write any more upon Srg-

PHEN Duck, to forbear all witticisms upon his name,

flail, Sc. they being anticipated in one of these f ems.

AVIUS.

LONDON.

Important articles omitted in our last.

Mond. died at Islington Mr. Ol, Ainge, a Gent. of the

Law, who having got enough to live upon, had retired

from business. E.P. L.E. 24. Strange, that he thould

die, when he bad got enough to live upon? ~— Yesterday

Mrs. Littler was with great order and solemnity intemb’d ae

Hackney. L.E. —— Sat. Morn. an elderly man fell down

in a cellar in High Holborn, and died immediately. P. 28.

-2 Soldiers were ty’d to Halberds upon the Parade,

and whipt by the drums. Jéid. ——~ Friday, a fire hap-

pened at a Baker’s {tables in Beaconsfield, which confined

them. £.P. S. 7. 29.

Tuursvay, O41.

Yesterday John Fuller Efqs and Sir If. Shard, Knt. the

new Sheriffs, were {worn in at the Exchequer Court, Weftm.

with the usual ceremonies. In the evening they gave a fine

entertainment at Haberdashers Hall for the R. H. the L.

Mayor &c. C. P. D. P.-— The ceremony of cutting

twigs, and counting hob-nails and horse-shoes (by which

tenures the City holds several lands) was performed, as usual,

by the senior Alderman below the chair. D. ¥. 3.7. L. EB.

There is advice by the Levant Galley, Capt. Oliver, ar

rived at Bristol from Jamaica, that the Galleons from Cadiz,

consisting of g men of war, and 18 merchant shins, got ta

Cartagena in 42 days passage. C D.P. D.F. In33

days. P. 4 Ev. If this account proves true, the

| Fair may be held at Porto Bello in O&ob. agreeable to what

My. Keeps laccly wrote: by which the South Sea Company

[Page 2.]

will be very much injured. —— being fotoriously tricked

hy the Spaniards in this affair. D. F.,4 Ev. —— J won-

der bow my Brethren dare refie@t in this manner upon our

Allies.

OY cherdsy morn. one Ward, late a noted Grocer in Blow-

bladder ftrect hanged himielf. C. D.P. D. JF 4£v.

On Tuesday Sir Al. Cuming gave his approbation, on

the part of the Cherrokee Indians, from whom he had full

ers, to the Articles of friendship and commerce; and

gn the evening they were signed by the Chiefs, — who were

highly pleased, and in token of their satisfaction, fung and

danced after a warlike manner, in their way, all the even-

ing. D.7F. 8. 7.———These people, as we are informed,

are able to fend into the field many thoulands of fighting

men. E.P. W.E. L.E. This is a mistake.

We hear Sir ‘Tho. Scawen left the grofs of his estate to

his youngest fon. E£.P. S.J. L.E.

The L. Mayor Eleét will keep his mayoralty at Fishmon-

gers-hall. £. P. Upon his election last Tuesday, he

made a fort but handsome Speech, ‘Thanking his Fellow-

Citizens for the many favours they had shewn him, parti-

cularly for the great honour they had just conferred upon

him; and concludét with saying, His heart, as well as his

doors, should be open to every Civzen. L. £. ~ This open-

hearted Laconic Speech twas justly received with the greatest|

applause imazinable, being the most eloquent whith for ma-

ay years had Leen delivered from the Hufiings. N.B. By

doors were principally intended cellar-doors.

A Butcher of Bloomf{bury-market, that used to fell his

meat cheaper than the rest of his brethren,” was committed

to jail, being charged with stealing 10 fat sheep. S. ‘7.

They write from Soy-Park in Wiltshire, that 100 inakes,

most of them an ell long, were lately killed near fandy-

lane in one day by the servants of John Nicholas, Efg;

8.7. W.E.

Frivpay, O24. 2.

By letters from Blackftone Edge in Lancashire, we are in-

form’d, that a brute animal has been seen there, which they

call a {nake, but by the bigness it seems to be of another {pe-

cies. It is said to be 6 yards long, and 2 yards over. ‘Ihe

shepherds in the neighbouring villages have loft several of

their sheep and lambs, which they imagine to be destroyed

by this animal. P.

We hear, that the rev. Mr. Rufhworth is elected Reader

and Fellow of God's-Gift Coll. at Dulwich. C.

Yesterday Dr. Wells, a Country Physician, was married

at the Quakers meeting-house, near Devonthise-fansse, to

the daughter of Mr. Rich. Partridge, Agent for the Colo-

ny of Rhode-Island, a very beautiful young Lady.

D. P.

Capt. Clarke, lately arrived from Virginia, brought over

2 Rattle-fnakes alive, the one 11, the other 4 years old:

they are now at the Virginia Coffee house behind the R

Exchange. D. F.

We hear, that this day 6 Companies of Brig Fielding’s

Regiment of Invalids at Portsmouth were to imbark, and

fail to Jersey; to prevent any further dillurbance, occasion’d

by the reduction of the French money. We hear that

Col. Howard, the Governor, is fent for home. D, P.

SATURDAY, O@. 3.

We hear the L. Commissioners of the Admiralty have come to a resolution, that no sea-faring man shall be admitted into Greenwich Hospital by the interest of any person, but shall be sent there as they stand minuted upon their books. P.

The E. Cowper, accompanied by the Lords Tho. and

James Murray, Brothers to the D. of Athol, arrived here

yesterday from his travels. D. P.

Laft night the corple of the Lady Harriot Vere was in-

terred from the Jerufalem’ Chamber in Westminster-Abbey,.

. P.

Yesterday died suddenly of an apopleétick fit, the rev.

Dr. Marshal, Reét. of S. George the Martyr, by Queen’s-

square. C. D. P.

A few days since died Mr. Moore, of Midhurit in Sussex,

Clerk of the Peace for that wee § and the R. H. the

E. of Hertford hath appointed Tho. Shepheard of Pet-

worth, Esq; to succeed him. D. P.

Dr. Wells, who was married on thurfday to Miss Par-

tridge, was seized with a violent illness the fame night,

soon after he went to bed, and last night his life was de-

fpaired of. a ——Tho I fear this Lady bas too much

Spirit for the Doctor, yet I don't despair of his life: this

violent conjugal illness being seldom either lafting, or

mortal.

The fame night a Glazier at Hackney, who was on

the point of marriage, happening to have some words with

a friend, hang’d himself in hischamber. C. D. Ff.

Yesterday about 8 in the morn. the Indian Chiefs fet

out for Portsmouth, where they will go aboard his Ma-

jesty’s ship the Fox, Capt. Arnold, which is to carry

thein to Carolina. 2. 7.

Laft thur{day one Howell, a Putney Waterman, in go-

4-¢ home with a Gentdewoman of the said Town in his

boat, < lighter under fail ran over the boat and gink it;

Z

o

by which fad accident the Gentleweman and the Wa-

terman-were loft; but the Waterman’s boy got hold of te

lighter, and faved himéelf: soon after the Gentlewoman

was taken up; fhe had on a velvet hood, a gold watch

by her fide, and 3 guineas in her pocket. D.P. Havel

Matter. C. One woman wholived at Fulham: by a Wett-

country boat. D. F.

About the roth an election will come on at Oxford,

for the choice [or election] of a Provost for Queen’s Coll.

in the room of the rev. Dr. Hutchinfon, deceas’d: the Can-

didates, we hear, are the rev. Dr. Hutchinfon, Reét. of

- Hammersmith, and the rev. Mr..Steedman, Fellow of the

said Coll. C. D.}. E.P. 8. JF. W.E. In the room

of the rev. Dr. Gibson deceas’d. L. E.

Yesterday the L. Mayor eleét was present at the launch-

ing the new barge belonging to the Grocer’s Company 5

which will be @xceeded by none for the carved figures,

painting, and gilding, and is the first built with a porticoe

in the tront of the house: His Lordship was pleased to

name het The Phenix. D-P. E.P. S.F. W.E.

The fame day the York-Buildings Company chose the

H. Col. Sam. Horsey, Gov. Benj. Foxley, Jerom Horsey,

Abr. Meure, Will. Squire, Fran. Townley, and Jam. Wil-

kinson, Esquires, Assistants. D. JF. 4 Ev.

We hear, that at a Court of Directors of the S. S. Com-

pany held yesterday, it was resolved, that their ship P.

William should proceed for New Spain; that on her ar-

rival near Carthagena, if the Capt. finds the Galleons in

that port, he should go in with the ship; but if they are

gone from thence, he should proceed to Porto Bello; where

if he finds the Fair is ended, he is to proceed for Jamaica,

and there wait their farther orders. Jdid.—— If the Fair

is ended, he will however certainly, according to the Pro-

ver’, carry his hogs to a fair market.

The Corporation of Hertford have resolved nem. con.

to make a pretent of a large silver punch bow], with the

arms of the Corporation engraved on it, to Mr. Alderman

Bridgman for his good and great service in preserving the

rights of the Corporation. 4£v.

Thursday night the corpse of Sir Tho. Scawen, Knt. was

interred at Horten in Buckinghamshire. E. P. S.F. W.E.

This day Will. Dudley North, Esq; of Glenham-hall

in Suffolk, was married to the Lady Barbata Herbert,

youngest Daughter of the R. H. the E. of Pembroke, by

his second Lady. §. ¥. The Lady Arundel. Z. E£.

In tho Gazette of this day, there is this Advertisement.

The Committee for letting the City Lands in the account

of the ( hamberlain of the City of London give notice, that

they intend to let, by several Leases, the PREMISSES HERE.

AFTER MENTIONED &c. Upon which, a forewd Corre/pon.

dent tells me, That several of our Friends would be glad t,

know, Whether this Committee isto fit in the Irish Chamber,

Mownpay, O4. 5.

At New-market on thurfd. the King’s plate of 100

guineas was won by Mr. Sheppard’s horse. On friday

the D. of Bolton’s Gypsie beat the E. of Portmore’s Daf-

fadil for 300 guineas. The fame day Mr. Rog. Willi-

am’s Whipperjnapper ran 5 times round the course, 6 mi-

nutes within the hour, which is 20 miles, for 20 guineas.

C. &c.

The King has been pleased to constitute Tho. Marlay,

“fq; to be chief Baron of the Court of Exchequer in Ire-

Jand: and Rob. Jocelyn, Efg; to be Attorney Gen. and

John Bowes, Eig; to be Sollicitor Gen. C. D. P. D. F.

There is now on board the Marlborough at Black Wall,

lately arrived from Fort S. George a fine, large, young

Elephant, valued at soe guineas. C. D. fF.

The D. de Ripperda, who has been here {ome time in-

Cognito, was on {aturday introduced to his Majesty by the

D. of Newcastle. D.P.

Friday night died at her house in Park Place S. James's, a

Woman notoriously known in that part of the Town by

the name of Mother Needham. Jd/d. I think my

Brother /peaks too aifre/petfully of this venerable matron:

he might bave said well known to the young Quality

in, &c. The Even. Pott ju/t/y cal/s ber the tamous Mother

Needham.

Tugspvay, O4. 6.

Yesterday Governor Johnson fet out for Portsmouth to

embark on board the Fox, for his Government of South-

Carolina. C. His excellency Rob. Johnson, Esq, D. Ff.

Yesterday morn. a fire broke out at Mr. Hawkin’s an

Apothecary in the Poultry, by the head of a itill flying

off. C. But a person having presence of mind stifled it

with some blankets that were at hand. D. P.

Sat. morn. early the house of the Wid. Moore in Shoe-

maker-row was broke oven by a Villain, who endeavoured

to cut the old Woman’s throat; but being in the dark,

cut her along the jaw, which waked her; and fhe endea-

vouring to defend herielf, her fingers were cut in a fad

manner: and upon her crying out Thieves and murder,

he stabb’d her in the belly very deep, and made off, leay-

ing his knife and chiflel behind. D. P.

Yesterday the Ferry-boat at Westminster Horse-ferry, in

which were a chaile, 2 herics, and feveza) passengers,; performance; which this our very worthey President

[Page 3.]

was by the rapidity of the stream forced into Che's,

reach 5 and it was several hours before they could eet on

shore. P.

Signiora Senifini, a very famous finger, arrived here 14

week from Italy, and has agreed with Mr. Heydegyes y

perform in the Italian Operas this winter. 4 Ev.

Laft week a commifhon passed the seals for constiturine

John Hammerton, Efg; who is appointed his M eity’;

Secretary, to be Receiver General of the Crown-Kevenuey

of both the Provinces in South-Carolina. §,

The King hath ordered the several estates in Middle.

fex, Westmoreland and Lancashire,: together with divers

goods and chattels that belonged to Col. Charteris, ana

were seized on by the Crown upon his late conviction of

Felony, to be restored to him. did.

Werpnespay, Of. 7.

Laft friday night Stephen Duck, the poor Thresher of Wilts, waited on her Majesty at Windsor, and in a publick Drawing-room presented a Poem humbly inscribed to the

Queen on her late benevolence to him; which was read b

a Nobleman who was in waiting on his Majesty: at which

time her Majesty was graciously pleased to order hima fap.

ther yearly Gratuity; which with the house he lives in

amounts to 801. per annum. P. ‘

On monday night, by order of the board of Green Cloth,

the woman who was taken in custody for breaking open his

Majesty’s wardrobe in the royal apartments at St. James’son

friday last, was discharged, being suppoted by her behavi-

our during her confinement, to be lunatick; and orders arg

given for proper care to be taken ofher. laid.

CECT to

From the Pegasus in Grub-street.

Letters from Bristol by the last Poff, are full of a very

villainous piece of Roguery, perpetrated again/? Mr. George

Packer, Merchant, of that place, by the audacious gang

of Desperadoes, who bad jome time ago fent him, and avin

several Letters directwd to him, threatning the defrudion

of himself and his two Sisters, if he did not jend them a

quantity of Guineas. And on sunday morning, between 12

and 1, they put their dreadful menaces in execution, by

setting fire to some combustibles in a cellar, which imme.

diately spread with such violence as to consume bis sing.

House on 8. Avgustine’s Back to the ground, hardly leaving

kim and bis family time to escape out of it, tho they ran

out almost naked. This action bas put the City ina very

great conflernation, and divers ars the reports relating to

the manner and circumffances of its but what is mof jure

prizing is, that the Gentleman bas had another Letter

from bis invisible enemies, purporting, that they were

Spectators of the fire-work, and sorry they did not joe

him burnt in its that ibo they were disappointed in this

attempt, they would find means to accomplish their Ends

adding, that the persons taken up, as mentioned in the

News-papers, were intirely innocent.

Several people are taken into custody since, but whether

for acting in this Roguery, or negle&ing their duty, is net

yet certain. Mr. Packer had men to watch, but jome were

absent, and some asleep. Tis said be was near canfenting

to their proposals, and would have given the Guineas ta

have been rid of the danger, but was perswaded by jaime

Gentlemen he consulted, not to doit. Nodoubt a great re

ward will be offered for discovering the Authors.

The following Letter was reccived this day.

To the Worshipful Grubzan Society.

Gentelmen of Grubstreet

We the Knights, Efqs and other Members of the anct-

ent Society of the Bathos, commonly call’d and knowr

by the General Name of the Gente/men of the Dunciad,

highly approved the Generosity and Justice of your late

Declaration: vz. That * you are of no fide or partey, ¢

‘ther in Poniticxs or Lerrers; and that whosocver

‘ has a mind to contradift any thing advanc’d in yout

¢ Paper, may doe it in your Paper it-seLr3; by whica

¢ means the Truth will foonest be discovered by {eeing at

« one view what both fides have to fay.

We have order’d our Secretary to return yov our Thanks3

to acquaint you that we do accept of your said offer; and

to demand, that in the first place you doe justice to our wors

thy President Mr. ‘Tipsarp, of whome an uiter Falshood

was inserted in your {aid Iournall: namely, That be andere

takes a Translation of Asctiyius, with rhe Subscriptiions

for SHAKESPEAR in Ais Pocket.

Nothing can be more false, for the Reverse is tru,

and you should fay, Undertakes an edition of SHakt:-

PEAR with the Subscriptions for ZEscuyLus in bis peckett.

Since we can assure you, it is full Seven years agoe that he

rec'd Guinea Sulfcription: for the said AZscny tus, up

on his profe/a/s, dated Nov. 1723. which asserted th

rm

| Work to be then ready for the Prejs, and thé ekhole to ot

deliver'd the Eajiber following, viz. Avr. 1724- oan

We farther require, that you vindicate the Right and pr-

p ng witsoa?

velige both of ours and your Societty, of pr¢97/3

§ prem

JP;

afi lene

Syehucke &&

> pee

Ta ee

pever be enovgh.extoll’d for authorizing by his constant|

ife, He who proposed an Zscuytus in 1723, and

oposed a SHAKESPEAR in 1727, had propos’d allfo an

OpyssEs in 1717, and two Volvmus of Wycuert¥ foone

after (nay stood oblig’d for them by Bond). All which he

hath, in a most exemplary manner, left un-perform’d. Nor

ought, nor probably will, the Subscribers be too impatient,

when they consider that truly-Chriitan proverb, Man pro-

profess but God disposes. And when it is farther consider’d,

that to deprive us of this practice is to deprive us of the

bonefteft part of our Livelihood, Charity as well as Justice

vires it at their hands.

We per{wade our selves, you will not be wanting in any

sefpect, to preserve that brotherly Love and Natural Alli-

ance, Which ought ever to fubfiit betwen the Gente/men

the Dunciad and the Gentelmen of Grubfiret. And

se bid you heartily farewell.

O.4. 6. 1730.

La W. —D, Seer.

P.S. In to¢ken of our frindship, we intend for the fu-

ture to fend you all and singular our Essays, Verses, and

igrams against our Opponents.

Pre nck this Lake wah great satisfaction; and re-

folve to do all possible Justice to our dear and distressed Bre-

thren. Only as to publishing a// the Epigrams, Essays,

and what they shall please to fend, we mutt be allow’d a

Discretional power for two reasons: The first is for their

fakes, left if any of their Oppofites shou’d so far renounce

Wit as to betake themselves to Law, some prejudice might

arise to as many of them as are not Attornyes or Attornyes

Clarks; The other is for our own fake, left the Weight of

their Writings, should chance to fink our Paper lower

than may be. consistent cither with the reputation, or in-

tereft of our Society.

Edinburgh, Sept. 28. We hear from Kirenbright; that

some days ago died there the R. H. James L. Kirenbright;

who is succeeded in honour by Mr. Me Clellan, Glover

here. This noble family’s whole estate was spent in the

Royal cause during the Grand Rebellion, which they have

not hitherto been able to recover. C. Kircudbright: L.

Kirkudbright. P.

Dadblin, Sept. 22. Laft fund. noon, one Roe, a Journey-

man Baker in Thomas-street, was detected in the detest-

able and unheard of a€tof lying with a fow; but made

his escape. P. but was retaken at Rathfarnham, brought to

Town, and committed to Newgate. D. P. D. F.

Laft night Pet. Manning, one of the persons concerned in

the rape and robbery of Eleanor O’ Neal, surrender’d

himself, and is now in the Black Dog prison. id. —

Sat. night the corpse of the Hon. the Lady Peyton was

interr'd in a very decent manner, the Bearers, &c. having

White linnen fcarves, which is now brought to such an

established custom, that there is scarce any burials without

them. Idid.

_ Dublin, Sept. 26. Wednesday Catherine M’ Can, an

old whore, thief, and receiver, was executed at S. Ste-

phens Green 5 where fhe behav’d in a resolute manner, con-

fefs’d her enormities, and died very penitent. She was an

evidence against her own mother, executed here some years

palt; and was afterwards herself convited of felony, but

pardoned. C. P.6.

The fame day Marg. Dungan was convicted of being

aeceflory to the robbery and rape of Ele. O’ Neal, on the

evidence of the said El. O’ Neal and Pet. Manning, who

was present when the faéts were committed, but not con-

cerned in the rape 3 and by whose means her life was pre-

served, when Dungan and Macantire would have had her

Murdered, or her tongue cut out. She was condemned,

but pleading fhe was with child her execution was put off till

thurfday; when being found not pregnant fhe was executed

Inthe afternoon: She prayed for an hour, and confefs’d

tr wicked life; but denied much of what was sworn

against her. Thus behaving in a very penitent, tho’ refo-

ute manner, fhe was much pitied by the Spectators. Jdid.

These Hibernian Whores have doth more courage and more

religion than the English; behaving in a very penitent,

and yet in a resolute manner. The Wives have likewise

More resolution, as appears from the following Article.

This week a Barber’s Wile on Lazer’s-hill, being inraged

With jealousy of her Husband, taking oppertunity when

was drunk, bit him in the testicles fo outrageously,

that his life is despaired of. Ibid.

ee

FOREIGN NEWS.

THuursvay, O4.1.

Veftergay arrived the Mail from France.

Mofecto, ug. 1. N.S. The fine library of the unfor-

tunate Prince Dolgorucki has been brought hither 5 all his

a

Sther effects having been fold by auction, and the money

Fad into the hands of the Czarina. As for the Princeds

Dolgeruchi, espoused to the late Czar, the is regularly paid

her pension of 12,000 Rubles a year; buf fhe is not per-

mitted to go out of the Monastery, to which fhe is retired. C.

Warjaw, Sept.17. ‘The King fets out next wednesday

for Grodno; anda report runs that in his way to Grodno,

he will have an Interview with the King of Prussia. D. P.

Stockholm, Sept.20. While his Majesty was lately a Buck-

hunting, attended only by Col. Dieteren, and some others,

a wild Bear broke out of a thicket upon the Col. who had

but, juit time enough to discharge his piece, which being

loaded with {mall-shot did no great mischief the Bear feel-

ing the {mart of a flight wound grew enraged; the Col. in

the last extremity, boldly thruit his arm down his throat;

but had been, infallibly torn to pieces with his claws, had

not the King that instant luckily come to his affittance, and

kill’'d the brute on the spot. Jdid.

Paris, O&.7. The 28th of last month, the Sieur Har-

dion, of the Academy of Inscriptions and the Belles Let-

tres, Was received into the Fr. Academy, in the place of

the B. of Angers: his speech, and the Chancellor’s an-

{wer, are both much admired for their eloquence. D. P.

Fripay, O4. z.

Paris, OF. 7. The 6 bells caft here for the K, of Por.

tugal, begin to makea noise, before they are fet up 5 some

days ago they were weighed, and found to want almost

half the ftuff given the Founder to put in; fo that it is

thought he will be hanged up before the bells, having

been immediately committed to prison. The Con-

fiitutionifts deny the Church rites, and even the H. Siacra-

ment in the article of death, unless the person will re-

ceive with them the Bull Uxigenitus. - A Jeluite,

Father Piré, Professor of Physic in the Coll. of Rennes,

opened there one of his Thefes with an allegorical satyr upon

the Abbey of S. Melaine, of the Congregation of S. Maur,

the members of which are reputed Janfenifts. ‘This Ab-

bey is situated on an eminence called Tador, which he

compared to a rock of Load-stone. He observed, 1. that

from this mountain arose a great cloud of sympathetick

duit, which whirling round made innumerable paths and

circuits in the valley, which mifled people; like the mag-

netick matter flowing from the Load-itone. 2. The

Load-stone always directs itself to the North, and is dia-

metrically opposite to the Meridional pole: in like man;

ner does our mountain regard England, and turns its

back upon Rome. 3. The Load-stone turns itself more or

less in pointing to the poles according to the different

situation of Countries, and the divers dispositions of its

body; and the inhabitants of our mountain, the Bene-

dictines, touch’d with the fame virtue, temporize with the

laws of men; accommodating themselves to the current

of affairs, and being carried about with every wind of

doftrine. 4. As the Load-stone attracts Iron, the vilest

of all metals, and nothing else; fo do they engage only

the worst among the people; infufing not vertue, but

venom: or, if they draw after them some times other fort

of men, they are certainly the Stwpidi, and Hedetes, in a

word, the people of iron. P.

Warsaw, Sept. 17. The Plague increasing about the

frontiers of Podolia, and many villages about Leopold be-

ing infected, the K. has given itrict orders for stopping all

communication with that Province. D. P.

SaTurDAY, OZ. 3.

Yesterday arrived the Mail from Holland.

Dantzick, Sept. 27. N.S. We hear the Czarina designs

to demand of the Republick of Poland free passage for the

30,000 Muscovites who are to enter into the service of the

Emperor, P. D.P. D. F.

Vienna, Sept. 27. They write from Constantinople, that

the Grand Seignior had resolved to accompany his army

into Syria; to be at hand to give his orders to the troops

which are to a& against the Sophi of Persia. P.

Hamburgh, O&.6. The K. of Denmark is in a very de-

clining state of health. did.

Bern, Sept. 29. A Country Minister’s Widow is brought

in prisoner hither, having got rid of z children, who stood

in the way of an estate, by giving them a toast and wine,

with a little poison in it. One is aétually dead, and the

other past recovery; and a servant-maid that eat a bit

with the Children is gone mad. This makes it suspected,

that the Prisoner dispatched her husband the fame way;

he having gone mad, and drowned himself. id.

Seville, Sept.15. The Marq. de Brancas, having had

his audience of leave, is departed for France. D. P.

Amsterdam,O08.9. We learn from Moscow, that Gen.

Weisbach was gone to Grodno, Ambassador to the K.

and Republick of Poland, with orders to aét in concert

with the Ministers of the Emperor and the K. of Pruf-

fia. D. F.

The Dukes D’Efpernon, De Gefvres, and De Noailes,

had form’d a design against the First Minister; but their plot

recoil’d upon themselves, by means of the vigilance of some

of theC—’s creatures, one of which came to him disguis’d

in an 4$des dress, telling him that a memorial had been

pretented to his Majesty, which -he had read, and which

lay upon his table, under {ome other Papers. His B---ce

made haste to the presence, and found alk the Circumftahi®”

ces to be true; but before he came out, turn’d the mitchief

upon his enemies. F. —— The D. of Gefvres is disposfets’d

ot his government, and of all his places; the D. of E/person,

the Countess of Thouloufe, and several others of the Nobi-

lity in that fa@tion, are forbid the Court, and order’d to

their Estates in the Country. C. 5.

Rome, Sept. 16. There runs about here a Manifesto of.

6 sheets — inveighing against the Nepotifin of the Popes,

beginning with Pope Alexander VI and falling heavily foul

of the Nephews of some Popes now alive. 4”. E. -—— A hind

Correspondent desires me to ask this Intelligencer, How mae,

ny Popes are now alive.

Monpay, O27. 9.

Hague, Of. 10. No less than 12 persons have been

executed publickly in Leward in Friféland, for sodomy:

and last friday the Provost of the Cathedral of Utreche

was alio executed, but in private. Several of those that fuf

fered having accused many others, yesterday a Council

was held on that occasion: upon which 2z persons absented

themselves, and an enquiry is ordered after the others a¢-

cufed. C.

Yesterday arrived the Mails from France and Flanders.

Hamburgh, O&. 2. The King itill keeps his bed a€

Odenfee. D. F.

Paris, O@.11. N.S. The King of P--- has ordered a

great Council of war to be held upon the depositions made

by a certain great Person, in answer to the Commissioners

appointed to examine him, in relation to his design of crof-

sing the feas. C. P. By his Royal Highness which

were in effect, that he was resolved to go for Great Britain.

D. P.

Letters from Madrid, of the 26th past, fay they had re-

ceived advice, that their Catholick Majesties, &c. were g

days on board the Gallies, and did not arrive at San Lucar

till the 19th; whence they went by land the next day to

Port St. Mary’s, which is 14 Leagues from Seville. C. &c.

Ve have advice from Rome, that on the 16th of last

month the Chev. de St. George accompany’d by the 2 Prin-

ces his fons, had an audience of the Pope; when his Holi-

ness made a present to the 2 latter of 2 Reliquaries, the

one fet with Diamonds, the other with Rubies. D. P.

Each of thema Shrine. P. or Box tor keeping relicks. D.F.

The Actions last week from 1420 Livres mounted up to

1550 and fell again to 1420. C. D. P. D. F¥.~- - The

K. has purchas’d a house at Versailles, to erett a Commu-

nity of Religious Women of Penitents, under the direction

of the Curate of the old Parish. D.P. A Society of repent.

ing Nuns: of the Rettor. D. F. of repenting Maids: Re- ,

étor of the antient Parish. C.—— Tho it is probable there

is a great number of repenting Maids in France, and a

greater of repenting Nuns; yet it may be difficult to ere&

a Community ef religious Women out of them. Mr. Ma-

vius assures me, that Curé signifies property neither Rector,

Vicar, vor Curate.

Tuespvay, Of. 6,

Moscow, Sept.14. Yesterday being the Feast of S. Alexan-

der Newkki, Patron of the Order of Knights of that name,

her Imperial Majesty did the honour to Count Wrartiflau,

Plenipotentiary from the Emperor, to the Princes Trubetz-

koy and Czerkasby, and to Gen. Wiesbach, of investing

them with the collar of S. Andrew. D.P.——TI /uppose

it should be S. Alexander. The D. de Liria has re-

ceived fresh orders from Spain to repair to the Court of

Poland. Jdid.

Vienna, Sept. 20. The Prussian Minister’s Lady an@

Daughter passing through the streets in a coach, and meet-

ing the Hoft, the Lady ordered her coach to stop: but

the populace haled her out of the coach, and forced her

to kneel down, tho’ fhe told them who fhe was. The

Prussian Minister immediately complained to all the Pra»

testant Ministers, who thereupon presented a joint Memo-

rial to the Vice-chancellor of the Empire, demanding {atis-

fagtion to be given immediately. Count Seckendorff,

at the Camp at Mulhberg negotiated with the K. of Po-

Jand alone, a Treaty between their Imperial and Polish

Majesties; got it ingrossed; and took it to the King ta

sign. But his Majesty having accidentally acquainted the

Count de Hoym with the contents a quarter of an hous

before, that Minister thorowly convinced him, that this

step would be espousing too heartily the interests of the

House of Austria: upon which he refuted to ign it. Gen.

Seckendorff, terribly nettled. wrote to the Count a most

abusive letter, and concluded it with a challenge. The

Count complained to the King, who ordered that P, Eu-

gene should be acquainted with it, and satisfaction de-

manded: mean while he forbid C. Seckendorft his Court,

which the Emperor takes as an affiunt, especially because

done by an Elector. P.

WepnNesvayY, Of. 17.

Barcelona, Sept. 17. Weare surprized here at the ae.

coum given us by the Master of a French vessel, of

[Page 4.]

® Corlica.

beer

we

Mil} Which he fary 12 leagues off the Cape of Thoulon,

and which {ail’d from hence on the ioth, as we thought

for Cadiz; and are now confirm’d of the truth of it,

since we find they begin there to embark their heavy

artillery and ammunition on board the transports, which

are paid very regularly, and as great preparations are ma-

king asever. I'is reported that this fleet fails directly for

D. P.

Booxs and Pampeuvers published in June.

* The Satirs of A. Perfius Flaccus, in English Prose, with

the Original. By John Senhouse.

* The Beaus Miicellany.

TwelveSermons. By John Rogers, D. D.

The danger of improving Phytick

The Gospel a reinforcement of the Law of Nature: a

Sermon. By T. Bullock.

A Lift of such as voted for and against the Heflian

Troops.

General History of executions, Numb. IV.

Modern History. By Mr. Salinon, Numb. L‘ XI.

Finishing the Christian course, &c. a funeral Sermon. By

W. Harris, D. D.

And yet there is room, &e. ASermon. By John Guyfe.

A Demonttration of some of the principal fecétions of Sir

If. Newton’sPhilofophy, &c. By J. Clarke, D. D.

Daubuz’sCommentary on the Revelations, new modelled

and abridged. . By Pet. Lancaster, A. M.

A Defence of the Answer to the Remarks on Dr. Clarke’s

Exposition of the Church Catechism.

' Afecond Letter to the Craftfiman.

gell, Elgs

A practical Treatise of saving faith. By Abr. Taylor.

An Efiay on poetry and painting. By Ch. Lamotte, D. D.

By Euttace Bud-

gion. By Dav. Some.

The method of Fluxions, translated by E. Stone.

The Index Writer against the Critical History, &c.

An Epiftie from Rome to Mr. Pope: a Poem.

The Happy Bride: a Poem.

The comparative exccllence and obligation of moral and

positive duties.

A serious Address to the pulpit, &c.

fitudine annua, &c. 3 Car. H, Rappolt.

Some Considerations relating to the present fate of the

Christian religion. By Al. Artcot.

A Letter toa Member of Parl. relating to the {ecret Ar-

ticle concluded by the Treaty of Seville.

Blasphemy as old as the Creation, &c. A Satyr.

Historia Literaria, or an exact and early account of the

most valuable books, Numb. I.

The Evidences of the Christian Religion.

difon, &c.

Rape upon Rape: a Comedy.

Thumb.

An Answer to Woolfton’s Discourses. By Will. Doyle.

An Account of the Tryal of Eliz. Chamberlain, on an

@dtion brought by Sam. Stockwell.

Robin: a Poem.

‘The Widow bewitch’d: a Comedy.

The works of Chrifi prov’d to be supernatural: a Ser-

mon. By ‘Vheoph. Blackail.

The duty and excellence of thank{giving: a Serm.

J. Middleton, D. D.

A description of 300 animals: with copper plates.

A Letter to Euftace Budgell, Efg; with remarks on his

speech, &c.

Afgill upon Woolfton, &c.

A Meditation on a Great Man, in the manner of Sir J.

Falitaffe.

The Gentleman’s Miscellany, in profe and verse.

The Cafe of Mr. Dan. Kimberly, &c.

The Persian Anecdotes, or Memoirs, &c. from the Fr.

Bishop of Peterborough’s charge, in vindication of the

By Mr. Ad-

By the Author of Tom

By

@uiracle on the Paralytic. ~)

Prices of Goods at Bear Key.

e*, per Quarter per Quarter

Wheat ——24 to 30 =| Hog Peas ——15 to 17

Rye —— 12 to 13 Boiling Peas— 18 to 21

Barley — 12 to 15 Pale Malt ——12 to 21

Oats — 8 to 13 Brown Malt-13 to 17 6

HorseBeans14 to 21 | Tares -—— 20 to 24

Coals 22s. to 24s. per Chaldron.

Hops 1728 — 15s. to 20s. per Hundred.

Hops 1729 — 20s. to 35s. per Hundred.

Hops 1730 — 30s. to 65s. per Hundred.

‘Rape Seed rol. 15s. torrl. 5s. per Laft.

Methods to be taken by Maunilters for the revival of reli-

Conjecture philosophice de colorum in facie telluris vicif-

On Tuesday Stocks were,

South Sea 103 3 8ths. South Sea Annuity 108 4 qrs.

Bank 144 1 qr; for the Opening. India 189. ‘'hree

per Cent. Annuity 97 3 8ths. Royal Exchange Assurance

g21 half. London Assurance 12 7 8ths. York Build-

ings 36. SouthSea Bonds 51. 17s. Premium. India dit-

tos 1. 19s. ditto. Million Bank 109. Bank Circulation

51. 2s. 6d. per Cent. Premium. Benefits 1710 9 1 qr.

Years Purchase. Nevis and §. Christopher’s Debent. 5

per Cent. Discount. English Copper 31. 12s. Welsh

ditto 3 1.

The Course of Exchange.

Madrid 42 3 4ths

Bilboa 42

Leghorn §1 1 hal€

Genoa 54 1 4th

Venice 48 7 8ths

Lisbon 5 s. 5 d.a7 8ths 6

Porto ss. 4d. 7 8ths‘

| Dublin 10 1 half,

Amsterdam 34 8

Ditto at fight 34.5 26

Kotterdam 34.9 a10

Antwerp 35 3

Hamburgh 33 4

Parisat fight 32 5 8thsa thalf

Bourdeaux at fight 32 1 half

Cadiz 42 5 8ths

ADVERTISEMENTS.

| FJ.N. will send to the Hoop Tavern in Manfell-street,

Goodman’s-fields, this Afternoon, be will receive an

Answer in writing to his Letter which came to band on

Monday laf.

BOOKS lately Prinsed and Sold by B. Mote, at the Middle Temple

Gate, Fleet-street,

1, Pi E Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy.

Isaac Waewvon. Translated into English by ANoREw

Motre. To which zre added» The Laws of the Moon’s Motion

according to Gravy. By Jouys Macuis, Proteffor ot Astronomy

it Gresham Coil:ye, and Secretary to the Royal Socie:y. In two Vo-

'UIMeES.

Il. Sir RicHaAnnp Baxer’s Chronicle of the Kings and Queens

of this Realm, continued to the End of the Reign of his late Ma-

j fty King George 1. By an Impartial Hanc. Folio.

lil. Sylva: Or a Discourse of Forest Trees. Ly Jonn Evetyn

Elgs bk. K.S. To waich are added, his Terra, Pomona, aid all his

other Treatises upon Gardening.

iV. A Survey oi he Ancient Husbandry and Gardening, Colle&ed

from Cato, Varro, Coumella, Virgil, and others the most eminent

Writers dmongst the Greeks and Romans. By R. BRADLEY, Pro-

iflov of Botany ia the University of Cambridge, and F.R. S.

V. The Works of Ben Johnson. Confilting of all his Plays, Po-

ems and other Pieces. In Six Volumes.

VI. A Treasife of the Mechanical Powers: Wherein the Laws of

Motion, and the Properties of those Powers are explained and de-

monftrated in an easy and familiar Method. Being the Substance oi

certain Lectures read a: che Geomeuy Lecture at Grefhas College.

by ANEREW MoTTE.

By Sir

Auk published,

In 2Vols. 8v0. Price bound 105.

THIRTY NINE SERMONS by the late Rev. Fobn Cok,

A. M. Re€tor of the United Parishes of Se. George the Martyr,

and Ste Mary Magdalen in Canterbury, and ot Mersham in Kent, and

one ot the {ix Preachers of che Cathedral Chench of Canterbury: From

the manuicript ry th prepared by himitelt tor the Press: (there being

several Copies of fume Ot the Sermons abroad in Writing, tuftgranted

at the Request of the Counteis of Coventry, and other Personsof Di-

stingtion.) On the following Heads and Occasions, wx. Of Faith.

Of Happiness. Of soming toChrifi, Of Vanity. Of Righteousness, Tem-

perance, and Judsiient to comes Cleanne{s mistaken. Of God’s Omui-

Jcience. On Prayer, Of Friendship with God. Of the Enmity of the

Devil. Of Refelution in Faith and PraGice. Of Proving and Perfe-

veving, The Nature of Cleanness. Naaman’s Cure. Of Vision, Reve

lation, and Repentance. Of Zealwhen commendable. When faulty. The

Crewn of Blijs and Glory, The Righteous Man's Revard. The Wickeg

Man's Lot, Tne Blessedness of Monrning. The Blessedness of Meekness

Mercy to the Merciful. Of Purity in Heart. Of holding faf? the

Faith. Godly Fear and Obedience. Of Covetoufness. Of the Sabbath.

Sion preferred. Of Superfition. The Difficulty of Salvation. On St-

Peter's Denial. Ou the Fifth of November; preached before rheLower

licufe of Couvacation, who requested this Sermon to be princed.

Printed by E. C. tor L. GILniven, at Homer’s Head against Sx.

Dunstav’s Church in Fleec-street.

Ox Saturday next will be publish'd in a small Pocket Size,

Price 4d: To be continwd, No. V. of

HE History of Executions, containing an Account

I. Of the Malefaétors executed Yesterday at Tyburn

If, Of John Trumbull, a School-nmaster and Highwayman,

and three other Criminals, Executed in August last at King-

ftomin Surry; with his Exhortationto his Fellow Prison,

and dying Speech.”

IIT, Of George Bidgood, a riotous Weaver, executed at

Gloucester for burning of Looms, &c.

IV. Of John White, exeeuted, at Wincanton in Somerset-

shire, for Murther.

V. OF John Chappelow, for Horse-stealing, at York,

VI. The Trial of William Gordon, a Butcher at Chelms-

ford, for a Robbery on the Highway.

Printed by R. N. at St. John’s Gate, and fold by the Book-

fellers in Town and Country,

This Day is published, _

Whith was the Reason of putting off the publick Commencement at Tr.

nity College, Dublin, and for which the Printer there is ander Pree

jecution.

Hk Censconiran. A Poem. By Martin Gulliver. Sold by

A. Dedd without Temple-Bar,

Gf whom may be had,

t. ALetrertrom a Lady w her Husbanu abroad, sth Edition.

2. The Batchelor’s Estimate of the Expences 0{ a matiicd Lise, ang

Vindication; and married Man’s Answer.

3: New Reflexions on the Female Sex.

4- The grand Mystery of meditating over an House of Ofce,

_ §- Mode Froposal for preventing Children of poor People trom bee

ing 3 Burden, &c. By Dr. Swits,

6. Present State ot ireland considered.

BOOKS printed for Jonn BRorneRron, at the Bible next tis

Fieece Tavera in Cornhili.

Cambden’s Britannia

Burkit on the New T'cflament

L’Eftrange’s Josephus

Tillotfon’s Works, 3 Vols.

Bacon’s Works, 4 Vols.

Lock’s Works, 3 Vol.

Oldenburgh of Exchanges

Addison’s Works, 4 Vols. 410

Puffendori’s Law of Nature

bailey’3 Dictionary, t 1,

Wood’s Insticutes, tol.

Carckas’s Rates, fol. Boyei’s Telemachus

Steveris’s Spanish Di@ionary Meige’s State oi Britain.

With Variety of single Plays and Parmphiets.

Blair’s Sermons, ¢ Vols.

Life of Oliver Cromwel

Gordon’s Geog. Grammar

Boileau Oevie poetique

Pilgtim’s Progiefs

Tales of the Fairiesy 3 Vop

English Tucor

Musical Diciinnary

Shakefpeai’s Pliys

Congreve’s Wuixs

Gartii’s Ovid

hs This Day is Hublish’n,

Rekgien the great Support, and Vice the Defirnion, of Government,

and the publick Happiness.

Sermon preach’d before the Right Honourable the Lord Mayor

aud the Guvernours of the several Heipitals of Lunaon, as

we Parish Church of Chiift-Church, on Monday Seprember 21, Le-

ing Si. Matthew’s Day. by Jolfeph Trapp, D. D. Minister of the wie

ted Parishes of Christ Church, and St. Leonara’s Fofter.!ane, Lon-

don. Publish’d at the Request ot the Lord Mayor, and the Aides

men, and other Governours of the several Holpirals, then pretenr.

Piinted tor RicHARD WARE, at the Bible and Sunin Warwick.

Lane, Amen-Corner; and Lawton GILLiVeER, at Homer's tiead,

against Sc. Dunstan’s Church, in Flect-flteer, 1730. Price Six Pe ng

Where may be had by the fame Aurhor,

A Sermon preach’d on the 3oth of January 1729. Pubjh'd a

the Request ot t!~ Lord Mayor and Sheriffs.

_ U1. A Sermon preaeh’d at St. Lawyence Jewry, of Preaching, Hear-

ing, and Praétiling the Word of God. Pubiidh’d at the Request of

the Vestry.

Dr. GODFREY’s General Cordial,

So universally approved of for the Cholick, and all manner of

Pains in the Bowels, Fluxes, Fevers, Siall-Pox, Mca‘lesy

Rheumatisms, and Retileiiness in Men, Wemen, and Cilde

vers and particularly for several Ailments incident to Childs

eens women, and Relief of young Children in breeding thei

eeth,

S fold in most Cities, Boroughs, and Market-Towns

throughout Great-Britain and Ireland; remov‘d from

Hunfdon to Broxborn in Herttordfh re: And for the Conve-

niency of supplying all those parts, there are established by

me BENJAMINGODE REY theft following Whole

sale Warehouses, viz.

John Weftlake’s in Queen-street, Bristol;

William Fuily’s, Dittiller, ar the Black Prince, in the

Market-Plice, in the City of Norwich.

Peter Leadbeater’s, Dittiller, in Weft Chesters

Mr. Button’s, Boukfeller, on the Brilge at Newcaitig

upon Tyne 5

Mr. Brooke’s, Distiller, on the Blind-key, Dublin.

As also at my Originale Warehouse, facing Angel-Alley,

Without Bishopsgate, London,

Any reputable Shop-keceper in any City, Borough, of

Market-Town, where this Medicine is not already fold, may

be supply’d at any of the said Ware-houses with good Al-

lowance.

N. B. The Publick are desired to take Notice, (to prevent

being imposed on) that there is an ill minded Person who

counterfeits the said Medicine, and puts the Title of Gols

frey’s Cordial on the top of the Bottles, and in his Bulls given

with the Bottles, he calls it Thee GENERAL COR-

DIAL, anddoes not put the Person’s Name who picpires

it; butas this Counterfeit Maker is now found out by his

own ConfeTion, he and his Sellers will be prosecuted as the

Law directs (as Impcftors): And to prevent the Buyers from

being impos’d on, I have put my Christian Name 08 he

Top of each Bottle, which is prepared

By me Benjamin Godfrey, M. D.

The price of each Botueis ¢d.

wth the

For the Benefit of those Persons who are afflicted with the

DROPSY,

Elizabeth Knell, who lives next Door to the Baker and Basket in Middle-Street, Cloth-Fair, near Weiroi

Field, OO

TILL continues to perform great Cures in the ©"

Distemper, on both Sexes, and all Ags. ie

N.B. An Account may b2 had of feve.ab Curses*

Place aforesaid. a

LONDON: Printed by A. Moore, for Captain Gulliver, near the Temple, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in.

[Price Two Pence]

