The Grub-street Journal.

Thursday, NOVEMBER 19, 1730.

Numb. 46

Sit Tityrus Orpheus.

Virg. Ee. VII.

Av HIE time of the election of a Poet Laureate being now at hand, many of

our Members are exercising their wit, in

hopes of obtaining that honour The

News papers have been filled with an

off-hand copy of verses on my Lorp

Mayor and the Court of ae

hi ingenious Brother Mr. OzeLt has, in the Daily

ow of iiey last, owned to be his, and at the

fame time added two other diftichs on two Aldermen,

whom he had forgotten over his bowl of punch in the

barge. Not contented with this, our witty Friend has

given us a ficetious diftich on a 27th Alderman.

AtperMan-BuRY, Where I first drew air,

It there’s a Rus in urbe, it is there,

This gives me a wonderful pleasure, not only on account

of the unexpected turn of wit, but because it informs us

where the Author was born; a circumstance which, I

hope, Mr. Jacon will add to the next edition of his Lices

the Poets.

"ae ingenious Author has oblig’d the World with an

Acrostick on Sir Ropert Warrote, in the Daily Founral

of friday last: on the reading of which, Mr. Jerrery Quip-

nunc, Grandson to Mr. Quipxunc, who is the Editor

of the political part of this Fourna/, made the following

Epigram off-bavd.

When coltive Poets, from distemper’d brain,

Dull Anagrams, or low Conundrums strain 5

Or {mear thee, W » with Acrostic drofs ;

OQ! raise thy arm, and lay thy STICK across.

These Gentlemen, indeed, do openly profefs themselves

Candidates for the Laurel: but Mr. Mortanp, in his

poem on the 4th of November, aims at it in plain

fords :

When fam’d Eliza reign’d, a Spencer liv’ds

Whole fame almost his Miltrefs’s furviv’d :

And on Great William’s glorious aéts attends,

One, whom each man, each country too commends;

Fain’d Appison, whose worth to all is known,

And by fa:ue’s trumpet round the world is blown.

Shall our great Monarch then a Poet want?

And is the English Genius grown fo feant ?

This, I must take leave to fay, fs a little too pert in a

Gentleman, who is only a Candidate for a fellowship

in our Society. Does Mr. Mortanp imagine, that we

have not many Members qualified for this honour, that

he fo forwardly offers himself ? Let me tell him, Mr. 'Tra-

BALD, in particular, is much offended at such an insult

froin one of his own profefion. Besides, I am much

afraid, that this pert Youngster is not sufficiently established

in the Protestant Religion: for tho” he has translated his

Inte Majesty inimediately to Heavens; yet he seems to

have fent Queen Elizabeth to Purgatory 3 and has plic’d

King William, the Hero of his Poem, no where at all.

Notwithstanding these Gentlemen, fo fond of shewing

themselves on this occasion; I shall humbly beg leave to

recommend one, against whom there can be no objection :

y Way of introduction to which, it may be proper to

Sive some account of the Rites and Ceremonies anciently

Wed at that {ole mnity, and only discontinued thro’ the

neglect. and degeneracy of later times. These we have

extracted from an Hiitorian of undoubted credit, and a

Reverend Bishop, the leirned Paw/us Fo ias; and are the

ame that were practised under the Pontificate of Leo x.

the great restorer of learning.

we now fee an Age and a Court, that for the en-

Couragement of Poetry rivals, if not exceeds, that of this

amous Pope; we cannot but wish a reiloration of all its

Omours to Pociy; the rather, since there are fo many

Parallel. Circumstances, in the person who was then ho-

howred with the Laurel, and in dim, who (in all proba-

ility ) is now to wear it.

f shall traflate my Author exactly, as [ find

the 82d Ciapter of his E/ via Vir. Did. He

With the character of the Poct himtelf, who wes the ori-

Gina ana to ther of all Laureates, and called Casz/o. He

Was plain Country-man of Apylia, (whether a SZephed

if in

e begins

Vad

, contracted a moit terrible Gout.

i

or Threfher, is not material.) ‘ This man ( fays Fovius)

excited by the fame of the great encouragement given

© to Poets at Court, and theshigh honour in which they

were held, came to the City, bringing with him a

strange kind of lyre in his hand, and at least some twenty

* thousand of verses. All the Wits and Criti¢ks of the

Court flock’d about him, delighted to fee a Clown,

with a ruddy, hale complexion, and in his ewn long

hair, fo top-full of Poetry, and at the frit fight of him,

all agreed, he was born to be Puct Laureate *. He had

a molt hearty welcome, in an Jffand of the river Tyder,

(an agreeable place, not unlike our Richund) where he

was firit made to eat and drivk plentifull;, and to

repeat bis verjes to every body. ‘Then they adorn'd him

witha new and elegant garland composed of Vive /eaves,

Laurel, and Brajfica, (a fort of cabbage) fo compo-

fed (fays my Author) emblematically, ut tam /a’sd,

quam lepide, ejus Temulentia Braflice remedio cobibenda

notaretur. He was then saluted by common content

with the title of Archi-poeta, or Arch-poet, in the ftyle of

those days, in ours, Poet Laureate. This honour the

poor man received with the most sensible demontira-

tions of joy, his eyes drunk with tears of gladneis +.

Lad

a a

w~

a

ticle, which is yet transmitted to us, as follows.

¢ Salve, brafficea virens corona

‘ Et Lauro, Archipoeta, pam pinoque,

‘ Dignus principis auribus Leonis.

Allhail, Arch-poet without peer!

Vine, Laurel, Cabbage fit to wear,

And worthy of thy Prince's ear.

From hence, he was conducted in pomp to the Capite/

‘of Rome, mounted on an Elephant, thro’ the shouts of

the populace, where the ceremony ended.

The Historian, tells us farther, ‘ that at his introduction

to Leo, he not only poured forth verses innumerable, like

a torrent, but alio /wxg them with open mouth. Nor

was he only once introduced, or on ttated days (like

our Laureates) but made a Companion to his Ma/er,

and eftertained as one of the initruments of his y:0/?

‘ e'egant pleajures. When the Prince was at tabie, the

Poet had his place at the window. When the Prince

had |{ half eaten his meat, he gave with his own hands

‘ the reit to his poet. When the Poet drank, it was out

of the Prince’s own flaggon, infomuch (fays the Hilto-

rian,) that thro’ fo great good eating and drinking he

sorry I am to re-

late what follows, but that I cannot leave my Reader's

curiosity unfatisfy’d in the catastrophe of this extraordi-

nary man. ‘To ufe my Author’s words, which are re

markable, wortus Leone, profligati/gue Poetis,&c. when Leo

dy’d, and Poets were no more, (for [ would not undet-

fland profiigatis literally, as if Poets then were profligate )

this unhappy Laureate was forthwith reduced to return

to his Country, where, opprets’d with o/d age and cwant,

he miserably perish’d in a comson hospital

We iee froin this fad conclusion, which may be of

example to the Poets of our time, that it were happier

to meet with no encouragement at all, to remain at the

plough, or other lawful occupation, than to be elevated

above their condition, and taken out of the common means

of lite, without a furer support, than the temporary, or,

at best, morta’ favours of the Great. It was doubdefs

for this consideration, that when the Royal Bounty was

lately extended to a Rural Gerixus, care was taken to

fertle it upon him for life. And it hath been the pra-

étice of our Princes, never to remove from the station of

Poet Laureate any Man who hath once been chosen, tho’

never fo much greater Genius’s mightarife in histime. A

noble instance, how much the charity of our Monarchs

hath exceeded their /ocv'e of fame!

To come now to the intent of this Paper. We have

here the whole ancient ceremonial of the Laureate. In the

first place the Crown isto be mx’d with V7» e¢-'ea- es, as the

Vine is the plant of Bacchus, and full as essential to the

honour, as the dat? of jack, to the salary.

Secondly, the Brajica must be made use of, as a qua-

litier of the former. It teems the cabbage was anciently

* Appulus prepingui vulta alacer, & prolix? éomatus,

omnino dignus fetta Laurea videretur.

$+ Miuanantibus pra gaudio oculis. °

| Semefis opioniis.

Next, the publick acclamation was express’d in a Can- |

| accounted a remedy for drunkenne/s, (a be the French

| how ascribe to the onion, and ityle a foupe made of it,

| Soupe dIvrogve.) I would recommend a large mixture

| of the Brafica, if Mr. D——s be chosen; but if Mr.

| Trspatp, it is not fo necessary, unless the cabbage be

supposed to signify the fame thing, with respect to Poets

as to Taylors, viz..stealing. 1 thould judge it not amifs to

add another plant to this garland, to wit, Joy: not on-

ly as it anciently belonged to Poets in general; but as

it is emblematical of the three virtues of a Court Poet

in sara it is creeping, dirty, and dangling.

n the next place, a Cavtic/e mutt be composed, and fung

in laud and praise of the new Poet. If Mr.C r be

laureated, it is my opinion no man can vorite this but

himself: and no man, I am fure, car sing it fo affectingly.

But what this Canticle should be, either in his or the other

Candilates cafe, I shall not pretend to determine.

Thirdly, there ought to be a pub/ick /how, or ent

of the Poet: to fettle the order or proceflion of which,

| Mr. Ansris and Mr. D--— s ought to have a conference,

I apprehend here two difficulties: one, of procuring aa

Elephant 5 the other, of reaching the Poet to ride him:

none that [know ( excepp Mr. Bub — who is no Candi-

date) having been a co the merage, and thé rest never

fet even on horiesack. Therefore i should imagine the

next animal in size or dignity would do bef; either a

Mule or a large Afg5 particularly if that noble one could

be had, whote portraiture makes fo great an ornament of

the Dunciad, aud which (unless I am mifinform’d) ig

yet in the park of a Nobleman near this City :

Unieis Mr. C-——-r be the man, who may, with great

propricty and beauty, ride on a Dragon, if he goes by

land; or, if he chufe the water, upon one of his own

Swans from Ca/far in Evyft.

We have f{poken fuflictently of the ceremony; let

us now {peak of the qualifications and privileges of the

Laureate. (Firit, we iec he must be able to make vere

fesextempore, 2nd to pour forth innumerable, if requir’ds

In this, I doubt Mr. Trssatp. Secondly. he ouzht ta

sing, and istiepidly, patu’o ore bere, I contefs the excel-

lency ot Mr.C-——e. Thirdly, ne ought to carry a /yre

about with him: If a large one be thought too cumber-

fom, a finall one may be contrived to hang about the

neck, like an Order; and be very much a grace to the

person. Fourthly, he ought to have a good /fomach to

eat and drink, whatever his betters think fits and there

fore it is in this high office, as in many others, no puny

conttitution can dicharge it. I do not think C R OF

Tispatp here io happy, but rather a itanch, vigorous,

jeafon’d, and dry, old Gentleman, whom I have in

iny eye.

I could also with at this junéture, such a person, ag

is truly jealous of the honour and dignity of Poetry s

no Joker, or Trifler; but a Bard in good earnest; nay, not

amis, if a Critic, and the better if a little obltinate,

For when we consider what great privileges have been

loit from this office, (as we fee from the fore-cited aue

thentic record of Forins) namely thole of feeding from

ef

even his domestic and companion’ it requires a man warm

and resolute, to be able to claim and obtain the restoring

of these high honours. I have cause to fear the most of

the Candidates would be liable, cither through the i: fluence

of Ministers, or for rewards or favours, to give up the

glorious rights of the Laureate: yet Lam not without hopes,

there is ove, from whoma /ferieus and fleady assertion of

these privileges may be expeéted; and, if there be such

aone, I mutt do niin the justice to fy, it is Mr. D—s,

the worthy President of our Society.

An EPIGRAM.

Ehold | ambitious of the British bays,

B C - rk and Duck contend in rival Jays:

But, gentle Cotter, should thy verte prevail,

Thou halt no fence, alas! against his flail:

Whereiore thy claim resign, allow his right 3

For Duck can thre/h, you know, as well as write.

Bavius,

——-= ee ~

LL Own D O'R.

THurspay, Nov. 12.

On tuefday night two Devonshire Gert! -men, that wer

| just co eto town, and put up at the Angel Inn, behi

| Sr. Clement's, and being in liquor, had the mis orton

| fl} out, when words ran to duch a height, that (woPdi

the Prince's table, dri.king out of his orvn Raggon, becoming .

ee nes

were drawn fb decide the fame; whereupon one received |

a mortal wound in the breast, and died in two hours af-

ter; and the other has since made his escape. C. P. DP.

Mr Holman, an eminent diflenting Minister of Halfted

in Essex, who has been’ many years making collections, in

order to write a history of that country, went to dine

with a fiiend lat week, about three miles from bis own

houf, and was very chearful and easy, and feemingly in

a good state of health; but going hove, wnt into a

cherch-porch, and was there found dead. P. LE.

That Gentleman at laff, was so far reconciled to the

Chaich, as to make his exit in ber porchs I hope all of

"em will, in time, be recoxciled, —— én the same manner.

On monday last Abraham Stanyan, Eig; his Majesty’s

lare Ambassador at the Ottoman Porte; presented to their

_Majeflies a curious painting of the Grand Seignior’s, n:w-

ly deposed, finely done at Constantinople. Ibid. E P.

On tuefday last died Mr. John Gordon, Proteffor Musick

in Gresham College, and Mr Andrew Motte stands a can-

didate to succeed him therein. did.

This day an information was granted by the Court of

Kinp --Bench, against Mr. Samuce! Balding, Deputy to Wil-

lism Morrice, Efy; High-B.iiff of Westminster, tor enter

ins, 17a violent andriorous manner, the house ot Rotert

Dai yple, Efg; in New Bond-street, on pretence of {ci-

fre the voods and effets of Collonel Charteris, upon his

L-. «enviétion of a rape at the Old Baily. SF. WE.

We ae well assured, that the duty on foap and candles

wii be entirely taken off, or, at least, cenfiderably dimi-

nifrec, rext {etlions of parliament. WE.

“On tuefday night the new opera of Si/via, or, The

Country Burial was performed tor the first time, at the

Theatre-Royal in Lincoln’s-Innefields; when there ‘ap-

peared a fett of people, who seemed to damn the whole

performance if it had been in their power (by their con-

tinual h:fling and cat-calls) notwithstanding which, the

fame was performed with app/ause by the general appro-

bation of the pit and toxes. Jdid.

Friday, Nov. 13.

We hear his Majesty has granted his Royal licence for

inlarging the Mock of the charitable corporation for re-

lict of industrious poor, with 300,000], which will in-

ereafe the capital to 600,000 1. C.

We hear that his R. Highness the Duke will next fpriag

make a voyage up the Mediterranean, under an experienced

Admiral, for a few months, in order to make him profi-

cient in the practical parts ot the mathematicks. d/d.

Extraét of a Letter from Northoy, Nov. 7, 1730.

E have an extraordinary piece of news from Holye

well, of athreatniog letter fent to one Jackson,

ordering him to leave 10]. in a certain place, upon pain

of fire and murder. Upon advice, he Ieft a bag of half

pence in the place required, whereby ithe villains being

disappointed, they broke into his house at midnight ;

but some persons upon guard coming upon them, they

made off in all haste. And on thurfday last, being fair-

day at Cacrways. Juckfon and his guard found two of

‘ the rogues, and another ot the gang was atterwa ds

« seized, and committed to Flint goal; they prove to be

¢ three Irith vagabonds. did.

Yesterday the Corporation of the fons of the Clergy

held their yearly general Court, according to their char-

ter, and chose their Presidenr, Vice-Prefi'ent, Treasurers,

and Court of Assistants, tor the year ensuing. P.

Yesterday morning died the Rev. Dr. Kilbourn, Preben-

dary of St. Pau’s. did.

Extract of a Letter from Cardigan, Nov. 6.

¢ N_ wednesday last came a small Ship near Cardi

s gan-bar, the Master and Men took to their boat

* before the Ship ftrucks the boat was soon overfet, and

« they were ail drowned, in the fight of many spectators,

« whereas had they remained on board, they had been all

«sale. The Ship remains whole and tight, and all her la-

e ding sale, only the fishermen were going to pull her to

¢ pieces by force, crying, that fhe was a wreck, and fo a

‘ Levit prize to them. DP.

; SatuRrDay, Nov. 14.

On thurfday night, near 12 o'clock, the Coroner’s Jury

(after an inquisition that lafted 9 or 10 hours) fat on the

body of Mr. Oland, that was killed at the AngelInn in

Wych-street, by Mr. Selwick, and brought in their verdict

willful murder. C. P.

efterday two private Centinels of the Foot-guards were

whipp’d on the parade in ae gat park, pursuant to a

sentence of a late court martial. did.

On thurfday last, ar the breaking up of the Council, Mr

Wiggs, one of his Majesty’s Mecflengers, was dispatched

from my Lord Harrington's office, Whitehall, with dif

patches, to the Ear) of Waldgrave, his Majesty’s Amboafla-

dor and Plenipotentiary to the Court of France. P.

The fame day his Majesty in Council was pleased to

order a proclamation to be issued out for the apprehend-

ing and taking the incendiaries, tor fending threatning let-

ers 'o fveral persons, demanding money to te lefr for

hom im the places {pecify’d in the fail letiers. {gid. E P.

And we hear that a reward of one thousand pounds, as |

a farther encouragement for the apprefiending ad taking |

of such person o persons, as shall be brought to justice,

will be immediately paid, by order of his Majesty, out of

the treasury, upon their conviction; betides his Majesty’s

free pardon to such as shall discover any of his or their

accomplices. did.

A new monument is ereGting at the upper end of the

south isle of Westminster-Abbey, to the memory of Dr.

Friend, late Physician to his Majesty. Idid.

Yesterday Mr. Alevander Evans, an emiaent Plumber in

Butcherhal -lane, felldown dead at his own door. Ibid. D P.

Yesterdsy William Wilford was committed to Newgate,

on the oath of Mrs. Elizabeth Wrights, for robbing her of

her pocket and 18 guineas. Ibid.

The following epiftle is a true copy of those put urder

the Master Weavers doors in the City of Coventry, to

bis ¢orre{pondent here in Town.

Friend Towers,

¢ Y these we let you understand, that we are a body

: of men that have considered the distress of the poor

s Weavers, and are firmly bound by oath, u on pain of

* death, to have the burthen of these poor fufterers reased,

* by railing the prices of all forts of work twelve pence

‘ per piece; but u,on the refusal of the request, your house

* shall be laid in ashes, at a time when your bodies shall

‘ have much ado to escape; for you are a fort of men

‘ that delight to grind the face of the poor. It will be

‘ justice to execute the greatest judgment upon you, and

« not on you only, but on all Master Weavers in general.

¢ 1} cannot but be loyal to the Government. God /ave the

‘ King. Ibid. E P.

There was a report yesterday, that the late Duke of Or-

mon died lately at Vailadotid in Spain. DP. E P.

A few days since, nine barges and lighters were funk un-

der London bridge, occasioned by a barge of deals sticke

ing against the starlings, which funk down, and fo shut the

lock. DP. &P.

Mr. Riechbrack,; the famous Scu!ptor, is preparing a

stately monument, to the memory of the late Sir Isaac

Newton, to be ere&ted in Westminster- Abbey. LE.

Mownpay, Nov. 1%.

The Parliament, which stands prorogued to thurfday the

tyth of this instant Nov. is further prorogued to thurfday

the 1 thof December next. C.

Yesterday the R. Hon. Sir Rob. Walpole came to town

from his feat at Houghronehal!, in Norfok, and waited the

fame day on their Majesties at St James’s, and was graci-

Oully received. did.

One Peter Burton is committed to the Gatehouf, on

suspicion of fin ‘ing threatning letters to one Mr. Cholmly,

in the strand. P. ;

On faturday last John Jones and John Lewis w-recom-

mitted to Newgate by the Lord Mayor, they being charged

with extorting moncy from Mr. Richard Battle, by rhreat-

nining to swear sodomy against them. Jdid. By Sir Rich.

Brocas. D P.

On faturday aft the Ju‘ges met at Serjeant’s inn in

Chancery-lane, to hear the {pecial verdict found some time

since against John Huggins, E{q; late Warden of the Fleer,

tor the murder of Mr. Arne; and after hearing Council

tor the King, and for th: Prisoner, which lafted several

hours 5 a question arose, whethr a writ ot vexire facias

de nove could issue, to try Mr. Huggins again, in cate the

Judges should be of opinion, that the special verdi@ was

infuthcient : but the further consideration of that affair was

adjourned fora few days. Jd/d.

About the middle of last week died at Brom'ey, by Bow,

Turvill, Efy; at his Brother's house, the Rev. Dr.

Turvil', to whom a great estate falls by his death. Jd.

At the adjournment of the Quarter-sessions in the Coun-

ly of Surrey, he'd last week at Sr. Margaret’s-hill, several

fugitives, who had surrendered themselves to the King’se

Bench and Marshalsea prisons, attended, in order to be dif

charged; but being ftri€tly examined upon oath, it ap-

eared they were not duly qualified, according to the Jate

Act tor the relicf of insolvent debtors, and fo were ree

jetted. bid.

It is written from Trallee, in the S. W. part of Ireland,

the 31 ft of O&. that a Danith Ship of 300 tons and 22

guns, bound from Copenhagen to Faft-india, was forced

on shore near that place, the 28th of the said month;

that 12 chefts of silver had been taken out of her, and !

secured in a Merchant’s warehouse; and that they did not

doubt saving all the goods, and probably the Ship (which

fat upright on oufy ground) it they could keep the country ‘

people from making a wreck of her; the Danes have fit- i

ted out this year two Ships for East-India, and one for

China, upon whom

City. DF. |

Lat thurfday his Majesty in Council was pleased to or- |

der, that the Convocations of Canterbury and York, which

stand prorogued to the 27th instant, should be further proe

rogued to wedneflay tho 23d of mext month. {ai7. ome |

1

great fums have bevn assured in this

It will be then fo near the halydays, I presume, they soit

net fit, till after Christmas. ;

Laft friday morninz Mr. Francis Stokes, an eminent

Farmer at Southwell, iu Middlesex, received an anonymous

letter by the general post, — ten guineas to be

put under a new tile, that was laid near a gate of afield

upon Southweil-greer, threatning, upon cafe of retul', to

fet fire to his house and barns, and to destroy him aud his

family. Jdid.

Tuespvay, Nor. 17,

“Welterday the, four following Mulefaftore were executed

at Tybarn, viz. Robert Johnson, Hugh Morris, and James

Obrian, for robbing on the highway 3 and Thoms Ri.

vers for a: The Surgeons having a warrant for

tivo bodies. Mave received those of Hugh Morris ang

Robert Johnson. Jsid. D F.

On faturday morning died Mrs. Champion, a widow

Lady, at the house of her Son-in-law, — Burton, E49; in

Hatton-garden; by whose death, we hear that an estate of

above 500 I. falls to her Son-inlaw. did.

On sunday evening several Constables, with proper af

fiftance, being on a privy search in deteéting lewd ang

disorderly hovfes in and, about Drury lane, met with

several people, who could give very little account of them.

selves, efpeciaily one Elizabeth Thompson, who insulted

the officers on their duty 5 bat, by the vigilance and con.

duét of the Conttabies, the fuid Elizabeth Thompson and

3 others were taken and committed to Bridewell. /s;¢.

These Kings of the night give very unjiuf rela

tions of their noPurnal exploits: instead of very little, js

mot to be doubted, but they could have given a@ very large

account of themfelzes; tho, perhaps, not a good Oe.

His Majesty has been pleased to grant to Mr. Cibbeg

the place of Poet-Laureat, a place worth 209]. per

annum. Jd. Lam terribly afvaid this account is

Mob true. weg ‘Seb Se

Yesterday a man was comniftted_to Neweste on a vine

lent suspicion of being one of the incendiaries concerned ig

fending several letters to divers of his Majesty’s fub-

jects. D F. he

The fame day Sir Philip Meadows, Knight Marshal of

England, came to his house in Privy garden, Whitehall,

from the Bath, being perfectly recovercd of his late in:

disposition. bid.

WEDNESDAY, ! |

His Majesty has been pleased to appoint the Rev. Dr.

Smallbrooke, Bishop of St. David’s, to fuececd the present

Bishop of Durham, in the See of Litchfzid and Co-

ventry. P.

His Grace the Duke of Dorset was yesterday chosen one

of the Governors of the Charter-houl2, in the room of

the late Bifhepof Durham; and Dr. Hall was unaninoully

chosen Physician to the said house, in the room of Dr.

Bale, deceased. DP. D7.

One Webiter, who was evidence acainft James Dalton,

Peas

iJve 12.

lately executed, is committed to the new goal in South-

wark, on {ufpicien of setting fire to a house in Rother-

hith; and the person that occupied the {uid boule, had

a threatning letter fent him. did.

From the Pegalus it Giub-prece.

Mr. RonErt Dyer (one of the Clerks to William

Bridges, Esq; Secretary to the Hon. the Commissioners of

the Stamp duties) was velterday sworn, admitted, and inrol-

led, an Attorney of his Majesty’s Court of King’s Bench,

by the Right Hon. the Lord Chief Justice Raymond. —

Tho Mr. Dyer docs net (eem to be a fara

Society, by some Pieces wwe hi

we iP iy of

» bree “oy

vl PATE [E272 C}

’ “4* w-

OMT €) of 0%

~ . 7 , ae yo. P-

ee hatal aces Bony Se

his, auNA WILY WU

he has chliged some of our Brethren: yet we are p ‘caled

to find that good-natur'd Man is im earnef to follco the

Profelfion in which be was educated, and quit the thank

less and unprofitable puryuii of the Mules 3 xetccithPanding

they intreduced him inte ibe ejteem and frivia if

» We ery

well satisfied, intended, if be bad lized, to be bis friend

with a certain Great Many.

To Mr. Bavius, Secretary to the Grubcar Sccicty.

~ 4

Dear Sir, St. TFames’s Square, Noe. 16.

Upon reading the Daily Post-Boy of the 14th Infant,

T found the following advertisement. On friday the 2oth

of this Init. Nov. at fix in the Evening will beoin a Course

ae; aa a = - ’

of Philosophy, Astronomy andG eography, to be perform d

by Grorce Gornon; at the M

Marine Coles howe behind

the Royal Exchange. lain’d all

In this Course will be exp

the phenomena of the Solar Svitem, as may BE VIEWS

BY ANY OBSERVER PLACED IN ANY OF

either primary or secondary, &c.

Now I being extremely desirous, out of an infatiable

thirst after knowledge, to be p/aced in (ome Prasat asan

OBS'RVER»s mv humble regueit to your Society is, that you

would lend me your Pegay:s (none of my Paya’s racers be-

ing fit for the purpose) that I may not lool thi: extraore

digery opportunity of Yecing a/f the Phasomera of thg

THE PLANLTSs

Siler Syfem, in fo convenient a fcituation, which will in- |

finitely oblige a curious maid, and your constant Reader

7 Urania.

p. §. I would fet out as soon as possible, the time

being very short.

To which by order of the Society, Mr. Bavius returned

the following answer.

MapaM, : ;

Tam sorry, that we cannot furnish you with a fteed fit

for your purpose. Our Pegasus never {oars above the at-

mosphere : and tho’ he has frequently attempted a journey

to the Moon, whichis the nearest of the Planets § yet he

could never get any higher, than only to receive fo strong an

influence from thence, as to return with his Riders quite Lu-

nitick. Besides, tho’ the Ladies may ride /ighter than the

Gentlemen, he never rifes fo high with the former, as

with the latter. We therefore think the Gentleman who

fes that his Onservers should de placed in some of

the PLANETS, is obliged in honour, by his great skill in

Mathematics, to provide’a proper Machine to convey them

thither: which may very conveniently be put in motion

upon Windmill-bill, opposite to Bedlam.

A remark on a passage in the London Journal, O&. 31.

by Timotux Noon e, Esq;

HE great regard which I have always had for our

T mott illustrious Royal Family, has stirred me up to

take notice of a most indecent refle€tion on the character

ef her Majesty, in the Loudon Fournal of O&. 31. In this

{candalous Libel, Mr. Osborne (having observed, that if

Mr. Danvers had faithfully abridged the Hiffory of the

Reign he writes about, or made a faithful abfira& of the

fats, the people would immediately fee, that there was NO

PARALLEL between the Reign of Hey VI, and this 5 xor the

LEAST RESEMBLANCE 0f adfious) adds, that the Hilto-

rian assures us, that the Queen * was one of the most ac-

* complish’d Ladies in ‘the world, in all perfections of a

‘ woman 3 beautiful without blemish, virtuous to admi-

‘ ration, and every way fitted for the greatest of Prin-

wot*® cefies: that fhe was graceful in person, of a ready and

* politic wit, and of a courage equal to the braveft men.

This charaéter, Gentlemen, agrees fo well with that of

het present Majesty; that I think the fellow who has

dared to fay, that there is xo parallel, nor the least re-

femblance between that Reign and this, deserves not on-

ly the censure of this learned Body, but the correction also

of the Magistrate. And, I donot doubt, but our illuftri-

ous President will, with his wonted zeal and loyalty, make

a jut representation of fo open and flagrant an affront to

a Queen, whom we all know to be possessed of those

virtues, ascribed by the Hiitorian to Henry VIth’s Queen,

in the higheit degree.

dn extempore Reply to the off-band Answer, pritited in

Foa’s Journal of the 7th instant.

W HY how now, Miftir Foo!

You are a fawcy Dog,

To dare t’abuse the Grud-freet Writer :

Than you he’s more exact,

Both in words and in fact;

More faithful in profe, in verse brighter.

You try, like Mr. Misr,

To your mill to bring grift,

By writing in all forts of shapes ;

Your poison up you mix

In baneful Politicks ;

You Jacobite! you Jack-anapes.

For want, you turn news-monger,

As girls turn whores for hunger 3

Behind double meanings still dodging,

You flice the Government,

Then {wear *twa’n’t your intent :

Rat lying’s your meat, drink and lodging.

What, tho” the hose rambles

In Pindarick preambles 5

et, truly, I'd much sooner burn all

The Papers of the week,

If the truth I may {peak,

Than I'd part with the Gras-freet Journal,

Let others fill their al

With Daily Papers dull,

While I in the Grub-freet find most joys

To me one single letter,

han each whole Paper's better,

@. for Courant, and P. for Po/i-écy.

6.

Gaus from others his news

| Knows wigh judgment to chute;

Who dies, or who's robb’, or who marries :

And, I'll lay a fair bett,

He outdoes the Gazette

Of Amsterdam, London, or Paris.

Upon reading these verses, Mr. Ma.vius declared, that,

tho’ he had written a Copy on the fame subject, and in

the fame numbers, yet he would not prefurme to produce

them at fo greata disadvantage. ‘That it was extremely

generous in the Author, who certainly is no Member of

our Society, to fend us fo admirable a vindication of our

Journal; in which he has plainly shewed his great skill,

not only in Poetry, but in the whole Art of writing Po-

litics, a§ practised by those great Adepts, Mr. Misr and

Mr. Foc.

To this Mr. Onrnopoxo added, that.as to the Poetry

or Politicks in Mr. Focs Fourzal he had nothing to fy

at present but begged leave for a few words concerning a

Letter relating to Deism and Infidelity, published in that

very Journal, in which our Society is abused. ‘This Leé-

ter is written in direct contradiction to one published in

his Fourial of Sept. 263 and is introduced with the cha-

racter of an excel ent Di/course, and an aflarance, that no-

thing fo well written, and with fo good a tendency, feall

be refused by this Paper. In the Letter itself, the Author

charges those who embrace the doétrines of Christianity,

as tranfinitted down to us from the most early ages, with

having formed their notions on the crude and inconfifient

interpretations of weak or defig»ing mer, contained in their

Creeds and Systems of Divinit; Most OF WHICH have

no foundation in the Re elation itself, avd many of them

are enti ely contradiflory thereto. ‘The too baftily torming

of these notiovs he assigns as the chief cause of the Deum

and InripeLiry of this Day. And as a remedy, pro-

poses the reading of that exce’ent Treatise of the late

learned and pious Mr. Lock, extituled. "THE REASO> ABLE-

ness Of Curistianity, a /iece worthy the perujal of

every impartial Enguirer. As this account of the caute of

the distemper, and of the method of cure, is fo contrary,

both to the theory and to the practice of those spiritual

Physicians, who are great admirers of Mr. Fos’s Felitical

Medicines, I wonder that none of them have fent us any

Animadversions upon this Feurra/: especially, since our

Society have given fo many proots of our impartiality, in

reltraining the exorbitances of our Members, without the

leait Regard to Party Diltin¢tions. Bavius.

Edinburgh, Nov. 5. Inthe Gardens of James Justice,

Esq; jun. of Chrichtou», one of the principal Clerks of

the Session, and lately admitted one of the fellows of the

Royal Society at London, have been cut this year 4 A-

nanas, or-Indian Pine-apples, in great maturity: there

have been also pulled a great many Coffee-berries, in such

perfection, that from them a dozen young trees have been

raised, the old ones having still many berries and blofloms

on them. Those, together with the Bonona, or Plantain

tree, Cocoa, Guiava, Palmeto and Camphire-trees, with

many other such exotick plants, and a very large and

curious collection of Hyacinths, and other valuable flowers,

embellith the gardens of this ingenious Gentleman, at his

Country feat at Chrichtoun. C. DF. DP.

Dublia, O&. 31. On tuefday lait one Harris was taken

and committed to Newgate, for moit barbarously mur-

dering his own fon, about 5 years of age, by ttabbing

him with a knife; it is said he came home with intention

to kill his wife, but fhe made her escape. C P.

Dublin, Nov. 3. On friday last their Excellencies the

Lords Justices went to the College, and heard orations

and veries, spoken in honour of lms Majesty’s birth day ¢

their Excellencies havingorder’d 100]. to be given to thoie

who should perform beit. did.

On thurfday last 4 fellows attempted to break into a

house in Coles-lane, with fo little fear, that they alarmed

the people; and tho’ they called murder fevesal times to

the watch, yet they did not defift, till they were juit

upon the point of being take», and only made off to a

waste place adjacent, without seeming to have the lealt

apprehension of danger or pursuit. /é7d. By this

account wt seems there was a good inte ligence betwixt the

rogues and those that should have taken them.

FOREIGN NEWS.

TuursvdayYy Nov. 12.

Hamburgh, Nov.14. N.S. The Duke of Liria hath

made piefling inttances to the Court at Moscow, that they

would not con ern themselves with the differences be-

tween the Emperor and the King his Master, about

the affairs of Iraly; nor to order the 30000 auxiliaries,

fo often mentione. to begin their marca. in return tor

which his excellency declare, he could warran’, there

would not be the ‘eaft deviation made from the trea y

concluded with her Czarian M je y. C.

Extraét of a Letter trom Paris, dated O&. 22.

° \ ' Hat every one here suspected is already come to fafs

P at Court; the King g owing impatient under the

“ absence of his fsvouritesy has recalied them, and the

« Duke d Efpernon ts sCtually arrived at Petitbourg, a ‘eat

* to &t. Owen, and the Duke de Richlieu hither. The

* Cardinal is content with having made them feafible of what

* he can do; but itis very much questionec, whether these

* Neblemen are of fo forgiving a temper, and io free fr

© the {pirit of ambiticr, as to balance accounts with bim

‘ far the guickness of their recall. P. EP.

We fve here the medal firack at Rome upon the ele:

tion of the Popes and represents on one side the Pontiff,

and on the reverse is Charity fuckling 2 children, with

this Morto, Non guerit gue fua furt: he does not feek bis

econ. [bid. -—- One woyla imagine the Translator though

the Medal was firuck for Pors Joan.

Lucern, Now. 9. Someadvices trom Spain fay that from

the moment King Phili. heard of Vitor Amadeus of Sar

dinia s resignation of his Crown, they plainly , erceived his

inclination to «bijicate once more in favour of the Prince

ot Asturias. S F. :

Fripary, Nov.13. -

Hague, Of. 13. Our last advices trom the Court of

Berlin, are by no means agrecabley affsirs there pet takin

fo good aturn as we could wish, However, their High

Mightinesses have again fent orders to Mynher Ginkely

their Miniter at Beilin, to make use of their name to his

Prussian Majesty, and endeavour to prevail with him to

forget the cauie of anger which the Prince Royal, his Sony

may have given him. P.

Our Letters from Vienna {peak very differently of thenew

plan of operations for the Allies of Seville: but it is con

firmed on all hands, that in cafe an accommodation cane

not be ma¢e this winter, they will no longer amuse thenae

{elves with pacifick {chemes and proposals, as they have

hitherto done, tor the fake of peace and the publick tran»

quillity: but enter upon a war in good earnest. P,

The Duke ot Mecklemburg thews less inclination thag

ever, to submit himielt to the Imperial decrees: That

Prince has lately caused another memorial to be deivered

to the members of the Dyer, field with complaints of the

fub delegated commission. Lid.

The differences between the courts af Vienna and Sax

ony in¢reafe infterd ot diminithing. I2i4.

Hamburcgh, Nov. 10. We learn trom Swerin, that

Duke Leopuid has received a letter from the Czarina hig

uiftery very much to his Satistaction. D. P.

Saturvay, Now. 14.

Viflerday arrived the Mail dze from Frince.

Hague, O.7. 31. N.S. Letters tiom Copenhagen com

firm che tormer accounts of the changes that have been

rung in the ministry there, since the death of the late King.

The Crder of the lephant is conferr’d upon the Heer Von

Rofencrantz, and made director of both the Chanceries,

to the great mortification ot the Great Chancellor, the

Count de Ho'fein; the Privy-Cour fellor Von Plofs has been

honoured with the llue ribbon; bute the Count Von Re-

ventiau Was, without ceremony, dismissed trom his pres

cious mores of of great Humt/man and president of A/-

tena. P.

Petersbcurg, Noz. 18. The Merchants trading to Great

Britaty have r-ceived the grateful news from London, that

his Breannick Majesty, ar the follicitation of the Merchants

there, will shotly fend an Ambassador to the Czarina, to

{ette all the diferences that at preleat fubtiit between the

two Courts DP.

Gibraltar, O&. 22. O.S. Lalt night we had most tera

rile thunder and lighting. by whtch one man was killed

nd fix wound, on hood the Dreadmught man of wars

‘er toreetopemaft was carried awat, oni her foreemaft this

vered. The main maft ot the Frienchhip, Capr. Spriggs,

wos fhver'd down to the deck, as was a Scooner,

DY. WE.

Cadiz, 04.31. Its now belived, no Flota will go from

hence next yeu 3 the treasure and effects brought by the

lait, are fill locked up, and no prospect of an alterag

tion. LE.

Monpay, Nov. 19.

Yesterday came in the Mails due from France and Holland.

Moscow, O&. 26. N.S. The Czarina has given fresh af-

furances to Count Wratiflaw, that the Emperor, his Ma-

fter, may depend upon the 39,000 Russians, whenever he

shall have occasion for them. C.

Vienna, Nov. 8. N. S. The dethroning the Grand

Seignior, and the death of the Prime Vifier, and some

other Ministers, are confirmed by several exprefics from

Constantinople, but they differ much about the cireume

stances of that resolution. The ‘Turkish Conful has had

an audience of Prince Eugene of Savoy, and, its said, the

Court will shortly fend a solemn Embafly to Conflanti-

nople, to renew the truce concluded at Paffurowitz, im

1718, with the new Sultan. did. -

Extract of a letter from Paris, dated Nov. 13.

THE report that was {pread, that upon the arrival

of the Marquis de Cuitellar, conferences wore begum

with the Imperial Ministers, upon a new plan of ac-

commodation, to prevent a war im Italy, was without

foundation. "Tis confirmed, that Count Koningiek and

the Baron de Fonfeea, are recatled 3 and their r xcellen-

cies are preparing to return ina few days. The Marquis

de Caitellar has delivered a memorial to the Cardinal Mi.

‘ of the Duke d’Antin, the Duke de Gefvres is returned

nifter, wherean be demands, that war be immediately dei

cared against the Exiperor, as the Allies of Seville en-

gaged, in cafe his Imperial Majesty did not accede to the

treaty. And that Minister prefles hard for a positive an-

fwer, that his Master may know what he has to truit to,

‘and not (as lait year) be put to great expences, to no

parpose. Jbid.

Letters from Rome of the 30th past advise, that the

prosecution against Cardinal Coicia was carried on with

the greatest vigour, did.

Letters from Ceuta advise, that in the month of Se

tember lait, the King of Morocco fought a bleody battle

in open field, wit most of the chiefs of the rebels of

his kingdom, in which the latter were defeated, above

7000 whites beirg killed upon the spot, and the rest pu

to flight. did. P.

Tuespay, Nov. 17.

Bologna, Nov-4. N.S. Provision is making at Pontre-

moli, for the fubliitence of 5000 Germans, who are to

march from the neighbourhood of Magra, to the fron-

tiers of Parma, C.

Warsaw, Nov. 4. The Senators and other Grandees of

the Kingdom having desired the King to flay here some

time, its thought his Majesty will stay here part of the

winter, to engage them, by his presence, to give the

greater di/patch to publick business, which his Majesty

has recommended to them the more earneflly, because he

would fain_appoint a time for another general dyet be-

fore he returns to Saxony. did.

Hague, 04.31. The Duke de Ripperda is arriv’d here;

and we are assured he designs to return and {pend the re-

mainder of his life in the Ommelands, the place of his nati-

vity, and where his estate lies: but as.for the other part of

fhe story, viz. that he will become a Protestant again, and

reaflume his feat in their High Mightinesses assembly, on the*

part of the province of Groningen, we know not what stress

may be laid upon it. P. I know not what ftre/s may

be said against its Inflances of Ministers changing their re-

ligion beig too common, Witne/s —

Extraa of a private Letter from Viennadated O&. 21, N.S.

‘@) UR Courtiers affect to give out, that orders are fent

F to Count Sinzendorf at the Hague, to complain to

their High Mightinesses, and demand satisfaction of them,

for the orders fent by their Admiralties to the ships of the

Republick, and those of the East India Company, to teke

the two Offend ships, as they have done, in conjunction

with the Ey glish: and in case of refusal, he is to declare,

~ that his Imperial Majesty will take a proper opportunity to

rcient this insult. Zd/d.

Leyden, No .21. Advices from Italy bring an account,

that the Rebels of the isle of Corsica have destroyed two

antient {ettlements of Grecians, and massacred all the inha-

bitants, men, women and children, for being well affeéted

to the republick of Genoa. 167d. I remember where

Such another massacre (a d for much the fame reasons) was

done in another Island, in the laf century.

WEDNESDAY, Nov. 18.

Paris, Nov. 20. N. S. The grand dake of Tuscany

fits ealy between the two contending powers of Germany

and Spain: he has been advis’d by his little council to en-

ter iito alliance with powers against both; however he is

resolv’d to hold his own as long as he can, and threatens

that if any body of imperial troops attempts to march into

his territories, he will let the Spaniards in at the other

door, viz. Leghorn; and if the Spaniards endeavour to

land in his country, he will admit the Imperialiits also on

the other fide of the Milanefe. P.

On Tuesday Stocks were,

South Sea 103 7 8ths. South Sea Annuity 107 3 4ths.

Bank 143.21 4th. India 1893 4ths. Three per Cent.

Annuity 98 7 8ths, a8. Million Bank 107 1 half.

African 51. York Buildings 29 1 8th- Royal Assurance

(100 1]. paid in) 94. London ditto (131. paid in) 12

y4th. Bank Circulation 51. 5s. South Sea Bonds 51.

16s. Indm ditto 51. 17s. English Copper 31. 10s.

Welsh ditto 31.15.

Prices of Goods at Bear Key.

per Quarter per Quarter

Wheat ——25 to 28 Hog Peas ——- 16 to 20

Rye —— 16 to 20 Boiling Peas— 22 to 25

Barley -— 20 to 22 Pale Malt -—- 25 to 28

Oats 12 to 16 Brown Malt—zz to 24 6

Horse Beans 24 to 26 Tares 20 to 22

Coals 24s. to 28 s. per Chaldron.

Hops 1729 — 29s. to 39s. per Hundred.

Hops 1730 — 39s. to §9s. per Hundred.

Rape Seed rol. torr. 10s. per Laft.

The Course of Exchange.

Amsterdam 34 9 Madrid 42 1 half

Ditto at fight 34647 Bilboa 41 7 8ths

Rotterdam 3410 Leghorn 511 4th a 3 8ths

Antwerp 35 6 Genoa 54.1 8thas 4th

Hamburgh 33 344 Venice 48 7 8ths

Parisat fight 32 1 8th Lisbon 5 s. 5d. 3 4ths.

Bourdeaux ditto 32 Porto 5s. 5 d. 3 8ths

Cadiz 42 1 4th Dublin 11 3 4ths.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

This Day is published,

PROPOSAL S,

For Painvine éy SuBscXiPrioy,

HE Necoriarions and Embassies of Sr THOMAS

R@E, Knt. Privy-Couniellor to King CHARLES I. and

Ciancellor of che most Noble Order of the GARTER. From the

Year 1620, to the Year 1644. In which Time he was Embafla-

dor-Extravrdinary trom hing James I. and Kang CHARLES Ie co

the Grand Signor, the Emperor, che Kings of Poland, Sweden, and

Denmatk, aud to the Principal Elegtors of the Empiie; as aifo two

the Dyce of Katisbunne. Tre greatest Pare designed by himiel{ to

be mace pubdiick. To which wiil be added, many others, which

he intended st to publish, as being of too privare a Nature to be

made publick in Times of Jeal uly and Diftiadtion. Incerfperied with

a iarge Account of the Embaffics of Sir RosentT ANsTRUTHER,

sir Jsaac Wake, Sit WILLIAM BoswELL, Sir DupLEY CARLE

Tos, the Lord ScuDAMORKE, the Earl ot Leicester, the Mott-

learned and Ever memorable Earl of ARUNDEL, and other Viinci-

pal Ministers of that Time. ‘To which are added, Authentick Ad-

vices, Original Powers and InstiuSions, Treaties of Peace and ot

Commerce, atid many Kare and Valuable Pieces, of gieat Ule to

cleat up the History of that Important Period. All trom their Orsi-

glual Letters and Papers o1 State.

LETTERS, fays my Lord Bacox, written from wife Men, arer

of all the Words of Man, in my Fudgment, the best, for they

are more natural thaw Oratious and public Speeches, and are

move advised thaw Contererces or present Speeches. So again

Levrers of Affairs from {uch as manage them, or are privy to

them, are, of als others, the belt InstruQions for History, and to

a diligent Reader the bei Hiltories in themfewes. .

Baconi Opera, Vol. il. p. 463.

, Sub titulo De Aug. Sc'eatiar.

N.B. This Work, “ascomputed, will make five Volumes in Folio ;

and no more than 500 will be priced, at 18 s, only each Volume;

and it wpwards ot 400 be subscribed tor, the Wonk shall be rencer’d

itill cheaper to the Publick, and ajlowed for in the second Payment.

Proposaus aie deliver'd gratis, together with some Account ot

the WorK, and a Specimen of a few of the Lerrens, by S.

RicHARDsow in Salisbury Court, Fieet Street, and S. PALMER and

i. HuGGONSON in Bartholomew-Ciofe; and by the following Book-

ellers; viz.

Mell, Kaaplock, Innyss and Rivington, in St. Paul’s Church-yard ;

Meff. Bettesworth, and Hitch, in Pater-Nofter Row; Mefl. Fayram,

Strahan, ‘Brother.on, Hinchcliffe, and Walthoe, in Corrhill; Mefl. Pem-

berton, Gofling, Woodward, Wotton, Cluy, ‘Brown, Gilliver, and Corgan,

near Temp'e Bar, Mefl. King and Stagg, in Westminster Hail; Mr.

Clements, at Oxiord; Ms, Crownfield, at Cambridge 5 Mr. Leake, at

Bath , and Mr. A& Emen, at Edinburgh.

Fu Pubiilh’d,

The Third Edition of

THE SIELLING DICTIONARY: Or, a Colle&ion of all the

common Words made use of in the Engith Tongue, caretuily

compaied vith the oripinal Languapes rom whenc: they are derived,

and marked as they ae co be prorounced. By T. Dycue Price

1s. 6d. Soid by R. Ware, at the Bible and Sun in Warwick-Lane.

ai Amen Coroer.

Aifo may be had at the same Place,

1. The large Hi ufe Bibles Voie wita the x Maps of sacred Geo -

giaphy, and a bilef Concordance for the more ealy nuding out ot

ihe Pi.ces theretn contanwed. Ey J. DownaAms, B.D.

Bound tn Calt Leather il. 6s. per B 0k

Aico wrh Ms. Srurc’s Cis at 2\. ss. Ditro

On a tine Paper wath Cuts Zi- 38 Dito

2. A Description ot 300 Animals, viz. Beasts, Birds, Fithes, Ser-

penis ana dnietts. Wath a particular Account oi the Whale thihery,

Excractea out of the belt Authors, and adapted to the Use of aii Ca-

pacitics, elpectally to allure Children to read. Iluftrated with Cop-

per Places, w hereon is curieully engraven, every Beait, Bira, bith,

Serpent a id infeét, describ’d in the whole Book, price 2s. 6d.

3° mpartial Churchman; Or, a fair aad candid Representation of

the Exceliency and beauty of the Church ot England. Together

‘with an earnest and affeStionate Address to the Protestast Difleniers.

By Rob re Warrer, D.D. Price 38. 6d.

“4 A Treatiie nt Architecture, with Remarks and Observations by

thar excellenc Matter thereof SEBASTIAN LE CLERC, Wor. ot the

Empire, Detignet and Enzraver of che Cabinet to the Lite French

Kine, and Member ot the Academy ot Arts aid Scienees. Necefla-

ry tor young People who would ap, ly co that noble Art. Eng: aved

ov $4 Copper Plates. By John Sturt. Translated by Mr. Chambeis.

Urice fy S- i : :

5. ‘Tiadetman’s Guide, Cortaining a Lift of all the S:age Coaches

and Carries; with an Account of al! the Fatvs and Market Towns

in Boglad. Price 1%.

The bett WATER in the Woxrtp,

So called by those who have experienced ic to be fo, for the Itch,

or any Itching livaavurs.

T hath been taken inwardly for the hina’s-Evin. I: is good

J wy cure fure hycs, or any orher Sores, Uicers, or Fiftula’s , it has

preserved several from saving their Limbs cut off, when all other

means Lave fared.

The Price on the Bore, One Shilling and Six Pence.

Ic is co be fold at Afr. Gomdge's, ac the Caille in Welkminter- Halls

Miy. Ragford’s Toy Shops atthe Rofe and Crown over-against St. Cle-

ment’s Church Yard in the Strand, near Arundel-Street End, and

at Mrs. Raro’s atthe Nei h-Enirance of che Royal- Exchange, over-

agai B archolomew-Lane.

~ 8 re er reer De

Bun WMenvay will he pubtityer,

N°. IV. Of the General History of Painriyg,

in Quarto,

By S. PAL MER, Printer,

Printed for the Author at his Priiting-Hovfe in Barty.

lomew Close,

Where may be had Numb. I. IT. and III,

This Number contains (among other Things) Memoirs of the

Learned Frosen, Printer at Basin; of Jonocus Bani:

Ascensius, atLyons, Likewi/e an Account of the first Prine.

ing at CoNSTANTINOPLE and Satonica above -09 Years

firce; as also the Hflory of Porxcror Wonks, @,,

N.B, Numb. V and VI concludes the fir? Volume, and

rent nature, containing the Piadtical Art of Printing

and will be put to Press wien the fir? Volume %2

finish’'d; which will be as soon as poffiple,

Beantifully printed from the 2 Vols.in 4to with Imprevements, on a fine

writing Pacer, in tvo Pocket Vols. in 8vo. Price Six Shillings bound,

POEMS by Atrtan Ramsay.

Let them censure what care I,

The herd of Criticks I defy:

No. no, the Fair, the Gay, the Young

Govern the nambers of my Song:

All that they approve is sweet,

And alfis jenfe that they repeat.

:; Prior from Anacreon,

Printed for J. Clark in Duck. lane; sl ys smc "aihiie

Temple-Barr; A. Millar against St. Clement's Church in the Strand

F. Cogan at the Middle Temple-gate, Fleet-street; R. Willock in

se and S. Palmer and J. Huggonfon, Printers in Bartholomew.

oie.

Fuk publitwen,

New MISCELLANY. Containing, 4. The Judgment of Tire.

fias- 2. The Queen of May. 3. Tne Simock-1ac’d Boy. 4,0n

the Death of 2 young Lady. sg. The Pricfthood. 6. A Court Bale

lad. 7. An Epiaph on a Genileman who was a great Hunter.

8. The Immurtai old Maid. 9. The Noriolk Garland. 10. A Lef-

fen ior the Ladies. 11. The Difference becwixi Love and Friend=

ship. 12. The Enamoured Brocther tw his Sifter, 12. The Beau,

14. On Colonel C---rs, 1§. The Bacchanalian Sons. 16. D,.

W--ter « DreCheeene, 17. Dr.Che--vie’s Answer. 18.A Buriefque

on the Jate L--d M--r of Y--k in Scripture Stile. 19, The Kabvit-

man Midwite. 20. A Song on the Murder of Mr. Hays by his Wite,

21. The coy Mistreis. 22. Lord D--’s Epitaph on his Suter. 23.

Onthe A--b--p ot Y--K and his C--n. 24. On the Fifth of Noe

vember. 25- An Epitaph on Dr. B--r--y, formerly B--r--r of Sr,

— Cambridge. 26. The jovial Cantab. 27. On bis lace M -y's

gracious Gift to the Universities. 28. On Dr. W-- B--, aged 62,

on his Marriage with Jane Diver, aged16. a9. The Force o: iHa-

bit. 30. The Controverly be, ween Mx. Pope gnc Mr. Theobalis,

1729. 31s The Lifference between the Papiits and Prasbyteriaus ue-

termioed.

London: Printed tor A. Moonk, 1730.

i

T RUE CHRISTIANITY, from the first speaking ot Chil-

dren, unt they come co the Holy Communion. I. Lessons and

Prayers fitted co the Undeiftanaing or little Children, II. The plain

Substance of the Church Catechilm, and Prayers, aad the weakest of

riper Years. MII, An Exposition of the Church Cateclim, made

plain to vulgar Capacities; atd Prayers teken out of the Common

Prayer and explained. 1V. A plain Exposition of the Orders ot

Confirmation and the Holy Communion: Also a Difgourie at Cone

shirmation: shew ing the Divine Initiation of it, and che Honour

due to it, By THo. CobsBarcHy, a Presbycer of the Church of

England.

Printed for Lawton Gilliver at Homer’s Head in Fleet-street.

Where may be had, just Published,

An APPEAL to the genuine Records and Testimonies of Heathen

and Jewish Wiiters, the Truth of the Christian Religion and its pri-

micive Doctrines.

BOOKS printed tor JouN BRoTHERYON, at the Bible next tse

Fieecce Tavera in Cornhill.

Cambdei.’s Britannia

Burkit on the New Testament

Lt trange’s Josephus *

Tillotion’s Works, 3 Vols.

Bicon’s Works, 4 Vols.

Blair’s Sermons, ¢ Vols.

Lite ot Oliver Cromvel

Gordon’s Geog. Grammar

Boileau Oevre poeti jue

Pilgrim’s P.oprels

Lock’s Works, 3 Vol. — Tales of the Fairies, 3 Vo.

Oldenburgh 01 Exchanges English Turor

Addison’s Vorks, 4 Vous. gto Musical Dictionary

Putfend rt’s Law of Nature Shakespear's Plays

Bailey’s Wiétioner, t L, Congreve’s Works

W vod’s Inititutes, ful. Garti.’s Ovid

Carckas's Rates, tol. Boyei’s Telemachus —

Steveus’s Spanish Dictionary Nieige’s State ct Britains

With Variety of Gogle Plays and Pamphiets.

For the Benefit of those Persons who are afflicted with the

DROPSY,

Elizabeth Knell, who lives next Door to the Baker and Basket in Middle-Street, Cloth-Fair, near Weil-onut-

Field, , aes

TILL continues to perform grat Curss in tic ‘is

Divtemper, on both Sexes, and all Ages. _ ,

N. RB. An Account may be had of fve.al Cus att

Place aforesaid. :

ve

LONDON: Printed by A. Moore, for Captain Gulliver, near the Temple, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in:

also at the Rainbow Coffee-House in Cornhill, and Fobn’s Coffee-House in Sheer-Lane, near Temple-Bar.

[Price Two Pence.|

