The Grub-street Journal. *”

Thursday, OCTOBER 29, 1730.

i i Pomps without guilt, of bleodless swords, awd riaces, :

Glad chains, warm firs, broad banners, and broad faces. Dunciad. BI.

2 Grocers, 1345. 13 Dyers. 39 14 Brewers. 6 15 Leather-Sellers.; 37 Bricklayers and 38 Bowyers. 21

1 Mercers, 1393: Hen: VI. “Hen. VI. 6 Rich. II. . Tylers. 10 Eliz. James I.

Da gloriam Deo. In God i: all our trust.; In God is all our trust. ta

16 Pewterers. 13. 17Barbers Chirurge- 18 Cutlers. beg: | 40 Black-Smiths. er hee 13

Ed. IV. ons. i Ed. IV. ot Hen. V. 20 Eliz. lizabeth.

Honor [co

7 Drapes, 1430

pinienteectn atts enmemnaaee

InGodisall my trust. De praecipientia Dei. Pour parvenir i | ByHammerand Hind Credo fed caveo

bonne foy. All Art doth itand. with Trust.

I 7 hite-Bakers 20 Wax Chandlers a1 Tallow-Chand. 43 Wool-pakers. 44 Scriveners. nS 45 Fruiterers. 3

2 Rich. UI 2 Edw WY James I. Jomes I:

1

aM eee) ‘

we

oy Nlversate”

r Goldsmiths, 1571. 6 Skinners, 1327. ' . 7

L be, _ PraiseGod for all. Truth istae Light. Ecce gsi we. jul 46 Plaiitercrs. 47 Stationers 3 and

tollitpeccata Mu di. Hen. VII. 4 Phil. and Mary.

22 Armourers. 23.Girdlers. 27 24 Butchers. 3 ee

beg. of Hen. VI. Hen. VI. James I a hy

f

" Let brotierly Love Per bene natis

— continue. . ma é vivere:

Make all fure. Give thinks to Omniafubjecifti fub | 49 Upholiters. 59 Musicians.

ay God. edibus, oves & boves.

9 Merchant-Taylors, 1501. 8 Haberdashers, 1447, | ne Pp = ove

ne: 25 Sadlers. Carpenters. 17 27 Cordwainers.

Edw. IV.

17 Hen. VI.

Feo

Our trust is inGod. Honour God.

23 Painters. 23 29 Curriers. 3 30 Maions. 12

James I. Hen, IV.

Tucem tuam, da nobis O Deus,

55 Apothecaries. 56Shipwnghts. 57 Woodmougers or

Fuellers. 3 Jam. I,

- at ohed3 Pe .

i Amor Creat obedientiam. In the Lord is all our tru.

a: PI ane Lalde ;

31 Plumvers. g 32 Inuholders. 6 33 Founders. 23

_ James I. James I.

Opiferque per orbem dicor.

58 Gardiners. $9 Sope-Makers.

_o

12 Cloth-workers, 1530.

CFS (x J In God is our Come ve bleffed, when I was

1) Se A ore f ag hope. harbourlels, ye lodged me.

= Ss rea ae A . a ee ;

ew at A * Sir Fes fav lw 34 Poulter 19 35 Couxs. 12 38 Coopers 16

; ee Fe |

RI \ i

~ \ er. ~ ae

> . a 4 oa" gs",

TED (eco SSE TEM bo, VII > Raw. IV,

2

Dii rexque fecundent. Dropas Rain, dittil] |

f

: a4 bs eR as Dew. 4)

iat SRC 61 Hatband- 62 Tobacco-pip:- 63 Caach-Makers, 9

Makers. Makers. 29 Char. I. ¥

aA SY

aS

Love as Brethren.

[Page 2.]

The ancient manner of the celebration of the Lord Mayér’s day, taken from STOW’s Survey of London.

On the morrow after the day of Simon and Jude, for the new Lory Mayor his going to take his oath at Westminster.

LL the Aldermen and the Sheriffs come to the Lord Eleé&t, by eight a Clock in the morning, in their fcarlet gowns furred, and their cloaks born with them, and their horseg

and fo ride to the Guild- Hall; and the Batchelors, called [Rich Batchelors, who are a number of substangial Freemen of the Company my Lorn Mayor is of, not as yet of the

Livery,} and the Livery of the new Lorp’s Company, with Gentlemen Ushers all [going in decent order} before him.

But the old Loro rideth from his own place to the Hall alone, having no Officers to wait upon him, but the Common Hunt, as a Gentleman Uther going before him, and the

mmon Huntiman, or one Yeoman of the water-fide, with his own men following him: and fo he tarricth at the Hall.

And after they be all come together, they take their horses, and ride to the Vintree, where they take barge to Westminster-Bridge, [being atterded by divers Companies in thei

Barges, adorned with Banners and Streamers, with the found of Trumpets, Kettle Dums, Hautboys, and other Musical Instruments.] And after they are landed, the Loap Mayor

and Aldermen put on their Cloaks within the Palace, and go round about the Hall, [where they perform many Conrtefies,} and fo up to the Exchequer to be {worn.

When the oath is taken in the Exchequer, they come down again. and go first to the King’s-Bench, then to the Commen-P/eas, and fo putting off their Cloaks, walk about the

King’s tombs in ’¢minster- Abbey, and then take Barge again: being in their passage, of later times, saluted by the Chambers, or Guns, placed on the other fide of the water.

Being landed at B/ack-Friers, in London, all the several Companies of the City, who had honoured him in their Barges to Westminster, and back again, do likewise perform

their attending service, as he with the Aldermen rides to the Gui/d-Ha//, todinner. ‘The Streamers and Banners attend each Company as they pais, Musical Initruments playing before

them, and before the Lornp Mayor and Aldermen; the City Officers walk in state, bearing the Sword, the Mace, and Cap of Maintenance, together with the City Strearners,

Banners flying, and Musick founding. In their passage to Gui/d-Ha//, the streets are lined with the Livery-Men of the several Companies. The Artillery Company are now also in

their arms, paying their respects to the Lorn Mayor. There is also the folemmity of the Pageants accompanyig, with speeches made thence to him, either in his praise, or in praise

of the City and Trade. The balconies of every house are {pread with rich Tapiitries : which with the windows are thronged with spectators, not only Gentlemen and Ladies, al}

in their best and richeft attire, but of all inferior ranks of people, and the streets crowded with multitudes, who are much delighted with shows and pomp. Squibs and serpents, ang

such like fire-works, were thrown about, to aflright some, and delight others, till the miichief this rude {port did, was at length ftri¢tly prohibited, by a special Act of Parliament. All

these things added to the splendor of the day. ,

(Being come in all this triumph to Gui/d-Ha/l, the Lorp Mayor and Aldermen alight from their horses, and go to the famptuous feast prepared there for them. Full well may

this be called a Bea/?, and ranked next in honour to St. George’s Feast ! for the honourable Lords of his Highness's Privy-Council, other Lords, Barons, Judges, Ladies, Gentlemen, and

Gentlewomen, with foreign Ambassadors and Strangers, dine there, 2's invited gyeits, and often Kings and Queens of the Realm: and therefore it is deiertfully termed, The Lonp

Mayor's FEAST.}

At their coming into the Hall, the new Lorpv Mayor, with two of the ancienteft Aldermen, [Master Recorder,] and the Sheriffs, go up to the Lorn’s table to bid them we!

come, and likewise all the other Guells. And from thence they goto the Lany Mayoress her table, and come out to the Gentlewoinens table, [and the Judges ;] and fo fromrthence

the said new Lorp Mayor goeth into the Chamberlain’s Office, where he dineth. Concerning the old Lorp Mayor, {o soon as they come into the Hall, be goeth up to the high

table in the Hu/fings, and there keepeth the state for that feat. [When the Hall is served with the seconds, then the new Lorp Mayor goeth with Master Recorder, and those

Aldermen that dined with him, to bid the old Lorn, and all the Companies, or Guelts, in the Hall wellcome.]

Then after dinner he goeth with the Aldermen to Pau/’s, and all the Companies waiting, and itanding in their due places for his coming.

The Order of the Proceffon, in beroic cerfe, written at the (As by the, Herald Painter is expreft) | Where having took an oath, that he will be

latter era of the Exgliyy Augustan Age, by that celebra- The draught of their tupporters, and their crest : Loyal and faithful to his Majesty,

ted Dramatic Poct, and learned ornament of the Society Six Gentlemen-Ufliers in order trudge, His Government, his Crown, and Dignity,

of Grub-street, ‘no. Jorpan, Gent. Andafter them the Batchelors in budge; With other (eremonials said and dones

Marching in measur’d diilance, and endu’d In order to his confirmation 3

In proper habits orderly array’d,

With order, This Division doth conclude, Sealing of Writs in Courts, and such like things,

The movements of the morning are display’d.

As shew his power abstracted from the King’s 3

’ al re j Pth’ rear of them fix trumpets do appear s He takes his leave o’th’ Lords and Barons, then

Ele&ted Citizens i’th’ morning all And after them two Gentlemen, that bear With his retinue he retreats agen

At seven a clock do meet at Grocers Hall. Two Coats of arms, which appertaining be To th’ water-fide; and (having given at large

The Masters, Wardens, and Assistants joyns To the City, and the Grocers Company. To the poor of Westminster) doth re-imbarge 3

For the firit rank, in their gowns fac’d with foyns. "Fhen do march up eight Gentlemen that wears And feud along the river, ’till he comes

The second order, do in merry moods, The golde 1 chains 5 then the Foy ns Batchelors, To Black-Friers/rairs, where guns and thund'ring drump

March in gowns fac’d with budge, and livery hoods. = Psa —. pe cy ego Proclaim his landing : when he’s fet ashore,

; rithone joy: {o this Divisio ’ » three volli

In gow’s and {carlet hoods, Thirdly, appears, = Y 7“ whoa He is saluted by three vollies more.

A youthful number of Foyns Batchelors. Two Gentlemen in velvet coats array’d, -; ;

Forty Budge Batchclors the triumph crowns, March after them with two banners diiplay’d 5 By (the military glory of this nation) the Company of

Gravely attir’d in icarlet hoods and gowns. Then succeed them ten Gentlemen-Ushers more, Artillery men, they being all in their martial ornaments of

. Gentlemen-Uhers, which white ftaves do hold, In coats ard chains of gold describ’d before; arg § some in buff with head-pieces, many of them

. . ° - ! ms — ally it r

Sixty i» velvet coats and chains of gold. And gradually after them you'll tee mally fiver. :' ¢

Sent thi Dears capes Gh er RE A very worthy large Society, From Black-Friers-fairs they march before the Lorn

ext thirty more in plufh and buff there are, 2 5 a bsp wem sek Mee tate Cleath iy Gall an

That fevera] colours wave, and banners bear. With each of them a gown and livery hood, a ae

“ a ugly aga ae And all Lorp Mayors in the Potential Mood. Those that w ent net to Westminster, viz. the Pensioners

The Sergeant-Trumpet thirty six more brings d Banners. be; adv .

All of thei silver ‘dthe Kings. 'th’ rear of these (with silver founds to fit ye,) es SEG Se es Sey Le ey Ee

J bof them silver trumpets, and the Kings. Do fall in dive oe YS, | Marshal, in the rear of the Artillery Company, leads the

The Sergeant wears two scarfs, whose colours be, 0 fall in divers trumpets of the City 5 ‘av along by the Channe J cal

ae : : ok dite i poate”. Seats way along by the Channel up Ludgate-Hi//, thro’ Ludgate,

One the Lonp Mayor’s, th’ other's the Coinpany. nd after them two Gentlemen accord, inte > Church- and {o i ” » onalide. whe

seal ' = ’ ) Te bear the Arms o'the City and my Lorp: into St. Paul’s Church-Yard, and to into Cheap/ide, where

e King’s Dram-Major, follow’d by four more : ” epi is i rtain’d by the firit {cene or pageant.

Of the King’s decens ad rye mot te LON DON roar And then the Gentlemen with equal distance nis Lonpentr is entertain’ by the rl fcene or pageant

Rt A. and Seen 6 ae sof buff That uther in the grave Court of Assistants.

ee ee et ae Pth’ rear of them, four drums, fix trumpets, be LONDON.

March with watle-{carfs, and*breeches of black ftuff. ’ Jy me ities Cc W.E. Whiteha/! Ever. Pof

Two City Marshal; doen ye Order’d to bring up the Catastrophe. Pp. ag I - bd at E-, +r

j Wy Wiarihas mounte ¢ ended, Three Gallants rradually follow t] . 0 OY. athe LANGOWN EON. Folie

Li mM : < *

Are by the Company with f{earfs friended. Bearing the oh em of » fe Diadem; ‘ D.P. Daily Pof. I. J. Loudon Journal,

ai ’; ~ hugh ge , : Pe Oe 8

And (next to th’ Drums) do troop it in the rear, Kings, Queens, and Cities Ensigns, which engages D. J. Daily iggy w. Fog's Journal,

ea a ° . ° -—o pain " V5 (pra?

But the Foor Marshal doth the next appear 5 Six Gentlemen to wait on them as Pages. E. - Es enemy Post. oa Sree. sitet

Who puts them all in rank and file, and wears The Masters and the Wardens bring up all. S. 5. 5. ay sven. ‘er = Sp. Unis ssid gos “

& shoulder {carf as broad and rich as theirs. And thus equipp’d, they march from Grocers-Ha/l/ ‘9 car igi Re Si PB Pag oe — wing

Attended by six Persons that dare du > To my Lorp’s house, where th’Aldermen and he from the Prgajus, read he Daily Pott of ang ig, Adan sr

Whate’er their Marshal may command them to. Take horse, and rank according to degree. We omitted the following material Article in our tha.

‘ yL r alc > al , tthe ring a lala-

Next the Fence-Master troops 5 and (to defend him) Which being done, the whole body in state Wher “. : Sagem ily ig — eh | of ree dd

Divers with drawn broad bright swords do attend hin. Doth march towards Gui/d-Ha//: but at the Gate ry upon him, was laid before the Assembly [of the Province

. mgt The new Lorn with the old Lord Mavor unite of the Maflachufett’s-Bay, in New-England] the House,

Many. poor Pensioners that march i’th’ rear, Sadie ee ae ee ee eee La tetee died th tee meh the Gina with Gov. Bur-

With 5; Act der te andl Guarded by Gentlemen, Esquires, and Knights judging that it was much the fame with that to Gov. Bu:

ith gowns and caps, standards and banners bear 5 sa : net, resolved by a very great majority, not to comply

- Anumerous troop of persons that are poor,; Then thus attir’d, with gown, fur, hood, and fearf, | with it. D ¥. 20.

In red gowns and flat caps, one hundred more 5 $arch all thro’Kine’s-?reet down to Three-Crave-W harf. THurspay, O4. 22.

With javelins and with targets are all actors, Where the Lorp Mayor and the Aldermen discharge Yesterday a Person walked from Hyce-Park corner t

At the welt end o’th’ wharf; and at the ealt allowed; but didit in 10 anda half. P. EP. Sf.

Being thus prepared, The Court-Assistant, Livery, and the best

bp : . WE. —— The fame day a Lawyer famous for asking,

B s the Foot Marshal’s judgment they are guided, Gentlemen-Ushers: such as stay on shore walk’d round the upper Moorfields 22 times, which is com-

- into six Divisions are divided : Are Ushers, Foyns, and the Budge Batchelor : puted 11 miles, for 10 guineas, against the famous Poul

k*d out by two and two.——-The fir that stirs Who for atime repose themi{elves and men, terer of Leadenhall, who declined welking, he being obll-

Are the poor Company of Pensioners 5 Until his Lorpsip shall return agen. ged to go the grourtd; he walked it in § hour and ge

. Burin the front.of them orderly be Who now with several Companies make haste minute. C. SF. WE. Lawyers ere f/ eguently

Placed the Ensigns of the Company. To Westminster. But in the way is plac’d good Tongue Pads 3 end, it seems, some tines rare Foot Pads

Tch’ rear of them four drums and one fife more; A pleasure-boat that hath great guns aboard, Tuesday at Dr. Douglas’s in Coveat-Garden, 2 Fat

_ Then Pensioners in coats describ’d before. And with two broad-fides doth salute my Lora, man was shewing his Fellow tervants a Highland dre‘,

ersons of worth, who do in martial manner} They row in triumph all along by. th’ Stravd: with its accoutrements, amo g which was a hanging pr

a each of them a standard ora banner. But when my Lorp and Companies do land stol, which he aflirmed not to be loaded. Another Fvot

Pour trumpets more to them, and in their rear At the New-Palace Stairs, orderly all man carried it down to the Kiechen, aud inapped it ts

&- Pre of the Grocers Eafigus march, which bear D2 make a lans to pals him tethe Malls } Vogal times againgh the wall: out at last holding ic davis

[Page 3.]

bad shapping it again, it went off, and killd the house-

maid, the bullet entering near her mouth. P. aFv.

Yesterday the R. H. E. Ferrers, who had been several ,

rs a Lunatick, appeared before the R. H. the L. Chan-

Sellor, when fter a show hearing, the Commission of Lu-

picy was ordered to be superseded. DP, 4 Ex.

The following Epitaph on Mr. Fenton was written by

a celebrated Poet.

The modest stone, what few vain marbles can,

May truly fay, Here lies an honeit man

A Poet bleft, beyond a Poet's fate 5

Whom heaven kept sacred from the Proud, and Great.

Foe to loud praise, and friend to learned eate,

Content with science in the arms of peace 5

Calmly he look’d on either Life, and here

Saw nothing to regret, nor there to tear ;

From Nature’s temp’rate feast role satisfy’d s

Thank'd heaven, that he had liv’d, and that he dy’d.

P. WE. LE.

Yesterday one Welchman, a private Centinel in the Foot-

guards, received 200 lashes for blaiphemy. EP. S ¥

Batins, near Blackflone-Edge in Laacashire, O8. 18.

The Brute Animal [mentioned in the News-Papers] was

yesterday killed upon the High Moors near that place.

Tt has 4 Short feet resembling those of a Crocodile, it

measures in length 16 foot 3 inches, and in thickness pro-

rtionable; its head is shap’d like a pike’s, has. two rows

of prodigious sharp and large teeth; and the body is co-

vered with large bright {cales very hard. A great many

{mall shot was fired ¢> no purpose 3 and it received the

death wound by an Otter {pear between the fofteft (cales on

one side. of its belly. The shepherds have loft a gicat many

sheep devoured by this montier. ‘These Moors are vaitly

reat, and unpaffable in many places. It is carried to

fanchester, to be hang’d up in the College, to be view’d

by the curious. £E P.

Dr. Hargrove and Mr. Stedman are chosen Governors

ef the Grey-coat Hospital in Tothill-fields, Weitm. founded

by Queen Anne. LE.

Fripvay, O24. 23. r

Yesterday the L. ‘‘ayor Elect was presented by the Al-

dermen to the L.. Chanccllor for his approbation, as cutto-

mury. P. C. DF.

The fame day in the afternoon was held the first meeting

of the Royal Society since the vacation, which was very

pumerous : and {everal Persons were put in nomination for

Fellows, as Dr. Allen, a Physician at Bridgewater; Mr.

Justice, a Gent. of Edinburgh, curious in agriculture, and

Mr. Garfide and Mr. Crays, who were eleéted. At the

fame time Dr. Wigan, an eminent and learned Physician,

(who published the beautiful and correct edition of Are-

tzus) was nominated, but wanting the consent of z thirds

of the Members present, he was rejected, tho’ before ap-

proved in the Council. D P.

Laft fund. another ingenious Gentleman among the Dif-

{enters conformed to the Ch. of England, and was ordain-

ed by the Bp. of Carlisle, viz. Mr. Sam. Quincy, lately Mi-

nifter at Harwich, and Brother to the famous Dr. Quincy.

Abid. Anold rigid Diflenter, an acquaintance of

mine, fays, that these Conformers are generally more in-

genious, t4az ingenuous.

Yesterday a Lad about 15 years of age, who has not

been discharged out ‘of Newgite above § days, was com

mitted to New-Prison, foraffaulting Mrs. Bellamy in Bishops-

gate-ireet, and robbing her cf a pocket, &c. D F.

SATURDAY, OF. 24.

Tuesday came on an Election at Oxford, for a Provost

#f Queen’s Coll. the Candidates were the Rev. Dr. Hutch-

infon, Reét. of Hammertinith, and the Rev. Dr. Steedinan

efthe said Coll. The votes were ¢qual, which caused fe-

Veral debates, and high words aroie, on which some Gen-

tlemen present put in nomination the Rev. Dr. Smith,

Rest. of S. Dionis Back-Church, and one of the Prebends

ef S. Paul’s, who carried the fame Ne. Con. C. E P.

SF. WE. Several debates arised. DF. They had 7

Votes each. LE.

Yesterday morn. died at her house in Grosvenor-street,

that celebrated Adtrefs, Mrs. Oldfield. P. D F. atone o’

chek. DP. about four. C. She has left the grofs of her

@ate to her eldest on Mr. Mainwaring. § 7.

The fame morn. about 7, one Mr. Rich. Viner, com-

omonly known by the name of Dr. Viner, hang’d him

self in his garters, at the White Perwke in Bell-Yard, near

Lincoln’s-Inn. DF. EP. WE.—A Hackney Writer,---

some years disorder'd in his fenies, and never appear’d abroad

Many thing but a dirty snight gown, cap, and hat, with

a long beard. D P. SF. LE.——The Hackney Wri-

tet be a dubious term, and signifies commonly one who pra-

ices omly the mechanical part of writing, yet b. the de-

Leription which follows, I am ajraid, that this Dr. was a

rubean Writer.

Mond. night a Lady was attacked in her chair in New

ond-street by 3 Street-roblers: 2 secured the Chair-men

With piitols, while the other rifled her of her gold watch,

ad 7 guineas, and some silver. E ”. -Wedn. night

lows mear the Sun-tavern in §. Paul's Church-yard, who

clapping a pistol to inis breast,~robb’d him of 7 halt

crowns, &c.’ Ibid.

Laft night died Mr. James Fern, fen. Surgeon of S.

Thomas's Hospital, &e. Z E.—— Mr. Ferne the Sur-

geon, who was reported to be dead, is (as we are inform’d)

in a fair way of recovery. P. 27. having been only flight-

ly indispos’d with a fever, and now much better. D P.

We hear that the Rev. Dr. Clagett, Dean of Rochester,

will be promoted to the Bishoprick of S. David's, &c.

Ibid. 1 wish my Brethren would take a little more

consideration about the Translations, &c. of Bishops. About

a jortnight ago, they translated Dr. Hoadly to Durham,

Dr. Chandler to Sarum, and promoted Dr. Bland to

Litchfield, &c. 4 Ev. 13. This Promotion of Dr. Bland

was confirmed by D P. and 4 Ev.17. The Pott-Boy of

19th promoted him to S. David’s: but now, it seems, Dr.

Clagett is to have it.

Mownpay, O& 26.

We hear from Reading, that the Person lately taken up

on {u!picion of robbing the Bristol Mail, is named Marth,

fon to a Farmer of the said Town, &c. C, ——~ He is one

Tho. Marsh, a Blacksmith at Ockingham, who had_ been

arrested 14 days before, and deposited a Bank Note of

251. in the Bailiff’s hands, ’till he could procure bail ;

which note had been advertised: on friday night he

returned with his bail, and was apprehended; when 6

Bank, and some other Notes were fig@ad upon him, of

which all but one are known to have been in the said

Mail. During his absence, he had been at the Bank, and

received money fora 20]. Note, in the name of Martin,

in which name he gave a receipt on the back. A few days

after, he received movey fer another 20]. Note, in the

name of Wynch, for which he gave a receipt in his own;

and adding a guinea, paid it in soon after, and took out

a note for 21 1.1s. Among the Bank Notes found upon

him, one appears to have been alter’d from 251. to 75 1.

and in another August is altered to October. ——— Not

long since, he fued the County of Surrey, on pretence of

being robb’d of 2401. and obtained a verdict for the

fame : part of Which he had received, and the remainder

he was to have received last week. D F.

What was inserted in the last week’s Papers, relating to

the robbery of Sir Rich. Grosvenor, is false. D P. ‘

Denner Saville, Eig; 2 days before his death, gave his

coach, chariot, a fet of herfes, and Bank bills to the value

of 300}. to one Wyeball his Coachman, who had lived

with him many years. D fF. I am glad to find

one Coachiman {tet up for a Gentleman, /ince jo many Gen-

tlemen fet up for Coachmen.

about 12, Mr, Downs, a Barber, was attacked by 3 Fel-

FOREIGN NEWS.

THuurspay, O4. 22.

Yeferday arrived toe Mail due from France.

Fienna, Oc?. 11. N.S. On the 6th we received advice

of the death of Prince Nicolas Mauro Cordato, Hospitodar

of Walachia. C. - OF.14. Tis said, that 6 Regi-

ments of foot of 2300, and 20 others of ze0co men, will

be augmented with 1420 new railed men; and that 4

Regiments of Cuiraffiers, and 3 of Dragoons, which con-

fit each of 957 men, will be augmented to 1456 cach,

which will require 3493 men to be new raised. DF

"RIDA Y, OJ. 23.

Rome, Sept. 27. N. S. Yesterday the Chevalier de S.

George went with his two Sons to his Country feat at

Albano. Card. Corradini made a visit' to the Nuns

of S. Clare, as their new Proteétor; where he gave audience

to every Nun in particular, one after another, with incom-

parable patience. P.

SATURDAY, O4. 24.

Paris, O4. 24. The order fent down [to Dunkirk] was,

to demolish the wall that {upports the Jetre, to a level with

the Strand; fo that the harbour will not be {poiled. The

people are now very easy about it, and appear merry at

their hearts. P. EP. LE. A litde adventure hap-

pen’d at Court, which gave occasion for much mirth and

pleasantry, there being present a great deal of good com-

pany. M. Roffignol, Matter of Requests, came into the

apartinents of Mes Dames de France; when, by ill luck, a

corner of his linnén itarted out, where it should not have

beens which one of the young Princesses was pleased to

lay hold of, and with both her hands pull’d it out. Poor

Reflignol, little expecting such a kind of attack, was struck

with the utmost confusion : but the worit of it was, the

Lady was fo delighted with her Play-thing, that fhe would

not let it go 3 and it was a long while before he could dif-

engage hinielf from her Highness, and put his affairs in or-

der. The King, they fay, laugh’d very heartily. P. WE.

Aonoay, O€@. 26.

Yesterday arrived the Mails due from ¥ rance and Holland.

Santa Cruz, Sept.5. N.S. We are flill without a

King. Traradant is yet besieged: but the City of Mo-

rocco has surrender’d to Muley Abdallah. The King is

now at Bulahuam, where the Blacks have made a terrible

fiaughter, by itrangling 60 of the principal Chiefs, and

murdering an innumerable multitude @f the conmgmon

people.

P.

Port 9. Mary's, OF. é. The Spanish Pleet of 14 mefi

of war returned into our Bay this morning from Ca

diz. C. DP.

From the Pegafat tk Grub-Arect. Wedn. O&. 29.

To the R.H. Humrirt Parsons, Efqs Lord Mayor off

the City of London.

ASP: Great Sir, on this triumphant dayy

These verses Written in no vulgarway;

By One, who flatt'ry hates, and {¢orns to name

Topics of praise which all the World proclaim:

And chufes rather the fam’d Source to sing, |

From whence your Pow’r and his own Poerh {pring.

Whatever working hands or heads preduce,

Whatever serves for ornament or ufe,

In cellar, shop, or lofty garret made,

Owes its perfection to the Baewers Trade.

When tir’d with work, good Liquor can reftor®

The Work-man’s former strength, and give him more $

His brains new spirits move, his nerves new springs $

He drinks, he laughs, he works, and sweats, and fings,

Full circling Pots e’en idleft hands employ 5 ,

And wing the tedious hours with noise and joy.

This cordial Draught can greatest cares appeal,

And give the Prisoner liberty and ease.

Drink but his fill, tho’ narrow {pace detains

His body loaded with a weight of chains,

No pains he feels of body, or of mind,

But in the Goal expatiates unconfin'd.

Grubean Authors Malts trong Juice inspires,

The coldest genius warms, and warmett fires.

If Parson’s nobleit Tun inflame their brains,

They {oar in Epic or Pindaric strains :

If Beer and Beer exalt the studious head,

In Tragic bufkins they majestic tread.

But if {mooth Ale in merry glaffes f{mile,

The laughing Bard employs the Comic ftile. -

If Ale and Beer their friendly pow'rs unite j

A Comic Tragedy he soon willwrite. ae

If Beer and Ale a nobler mixture joins ;

In Trage-comedy his Genius shines.

The Force of either, when it’s drank alone, ° ‘

In Ballad Opera or Farce is shown. ,

If each is very mild, or very ftale,

In Elegy twill whine, or Satire rail. .

If bottled both, and neither {mall nor ftron

They froth in Epigram, or some in Song. *

If bitter, thick, and flat; it dully flows

In shallow, muddy, low, and naufeous Prose.

As the kind influence of descending rain

Softens each feed, and brings forth every grain

So mix’d with Malt, it yields a potent Juice,

T’ inform each head, and every flile produces

In Verse, Pindarics, Epics, Satires, Plays,

In Prose, Discourses, Letters, and Essays,

If growth of France or Spain, exotic Wine,

To foreign ichemes the States-man’s head inclines

If numerous Treaties sign’d disturb his sleep,

And half form’d Projeéts round his cranium creep $.

Next day to fettle all, the Noble Chief, +

Of folid pudding and substantial beef,

True English bafis lays; while Native Drink,

Sound, generous Porter fills up every chink.

Shining in Senate now with imile serene,

The Glorious ENcLisH-MAN in face and mien,

Slow rifes from his feat : fublime, fedate,

He rising seems the Pillar of the State.

Then Hear him, Hear bis {trains the Members throats

And The Yeas have it by an hundred votes.

These are th’ Effects of Tubs with Liquor fraught,

But greater still inempty Tubs are wrought.

Ting d with the noble juice, they fill retain

Their potent influence an human brain.

The plump Non Con, when many a frothy Can

Has strongly fortify’d his inner man 4

Wheri to due magnitude his Vessel’s strain’d,

To fill the empty {pace itself had drain’d;

Aicends the Tub: from which one circling head,

High o’er his own, for {ounding-board is spread.

The Liquor works afresh through this new bung,

Fomes at his mouth, and fputter: from his Tongue,

High founds above th’ eeclefiaftic drum :

The Crowd below returns a solemn hum.

*T wixt empty cask and empty skills is found

A perfect {sympathy of sense and found.

The Tub, thus groaning with inceffant blows,

With dottrine, like the place from whenee it flows, ~

The Saints intoxicates, now empty, more,

Than e’er, when full, the Reprobate before.

Maevius.

We thank our kind Correspondents for several Letters

and Copies of verses, which we fall soon insert and bofe

our Readers will excuje our deficiency beth as to foreign

and domestic News, Stocks, &c. on this extraordinary Day.

The Article concerning Benj. Hoare, Eiq’s marriage, in

on a Poit of this day, has not the least foundation of

truth.

[Page 4.]

Laft week in the Lord Mayor's Court at Guildhal, London, came on to be argued before Baron Thomson, Recorder, a cause on a Mariner’s petition to be -discharged

for not beirg enrolled in London, according to the Act

of 5 Queen Eliz. cap. 5. Sec. 12. To which the Defendant

pleaded an enrollment at the Trimity-house in London,

pursuant to Letters Patents granted by King Charles II.

( Uye Apprentice was put out by the Governors of Christ’s

Hospital) The question therefore on a demurrer was, whe-

ther such enrollment was good ? And after a full hearing

by Council on both fides, the Court was of opinion, and

it was adjuged, that an enrollment at the Trinity-house

was hot a good enrollment within the meaning of the said

Aad, or according te the Custom of London; and there-

upon judgment was awarded for the Apprentice to be dif-

charged from the Master.--- Wherefore this publick no-

tice Is given to caution all such Masters to enroll their Ap-

entices before the Chamberlain of London, as the said

_ AR directs. I think this a good eaution, but the Clause

in the Act is fuller, which, for the benefit of my Readers

about Wapping, Deptford, Greenwich and Woobkwich, I

shall reprint, viz. That from henceforth it shall be lawful to

all every owner and owners of ships or vessels, and

to evety houtholder, using and exercising the trade of the

Seas by fishing, or otherwise; and to every gunner or

gunness, commonly called cannoneers, and to every ship-’

wright, to take and keep one or more apprentice or ap-

prentices to be brought u¢ in the said Trade or Trades,

every one of the fame apprentice or apprentices to be to

them bound for ten years, or under, and every appren-

tice fo taken being above 7 years of age, shall be by the

fame Covenants bound, ordered, and used to all intents,

according to the cuttom of the City of London; fo that

the fame Covenant or Bond of apprenticeship be made

by writing, indented and inrolled in the Town where

the fame apprentice shall be thei inhabiting, if it be a

‘Town-corporate; and if the Town be not incorporate,

then to be enrolled in the next Town-incorporate to the

habitation of every such apprentice.

Boors and Pampuuets published in September.

A Sermon, occasioned by the death of the Rev. Mr.

Tho. Cotton: with a Discourse at the grave: by S.

Wright, D. D.

A Ser. at the ordination of Deacons : by Jof. Burroughs.

A Letter to the Bp. of Lond. from the Leeward Islands,

containing Considerations on his 2 Letters, May 19, 1727.

An Essay on the nature of miracles: by Jof. Hallett.

An Occasional Writer. Price 6d.

A Colleétion of Recipes in the Daily Jour. Pr. 6d.

Script. vind. in answer to Christianity as old, &c. Part I.

The Monthly Chronicle for August.

The Political State of G. Britain, for August.

The New Political State of Great Britain, N. &.

Historia Literaria, N. 4. for August.

Magna Britannia & Hibernia antiqua & neva, N. 88.

Modern History : by Mr. Salmon, N. 74. 2d of Vol. XII.

Rapin’s History of England: by Mr. Tindal, N. 64, 65.

Biftoire d’Angleterre, par M. de Rapin Thoyras, N. 31-

The Life of Mahomet, from the Count de Boulainvilliers.

State Law, or the doétrine of Libels discussed, &c. Pr. 2s.

Christo-theology, ora Demonstration of the divine au-

thority of the Christian Religion: a Serm. by W. Der-

ham, D.D.

The Self-deceiver discovered to himself, &c. by Clem.

Ellis, M. A.

An Appeal to the genuine records and tefimonies of

Heathen and Jewish Writers, &c. Part I.

' Directions for putting in execution the late A& about

uries.

The High German Physician, &c. and the Norfolk Fa-

Wourite. Price 6d. -

The Richmond Beauties: a Poem. Price 6d.

Almeria: a Poem : by Jof. Turner, Esq;

Poems by Allan Ramsay : 2 Vols. 8vo.

Poems on several subsefts : by Stephen Duck. Pr. 6d.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

This Day will be delivered to the Subscribers,

a Collection ot Srate Tayats, in fix large Volumes in

- 10.

As allo the two additional Volumes, containing such Tryals as

were not in the tormes Edition.

This Day is published,

The OCCASIONAL WRITER, N’ W.

$ OLD by the Booksellers and Pamphiet-Shops of London and

Westminster. Price 6 d.

Where may be-tiad the ad Edition of Numb. I.

N.B. These Occafienal Writers having been pyrated, and a large

Field of Matter new presenting, the Autor intendy, in a very litle

Time, to exhibit his Lucubrations, (under the Titleof, The PATRIOT)

_ in a Half-theet Paper, wwice a Week.

Lately Bublithes,

(A Subjed of anivarfal Importance, no less than to praesent the Necep-

ticn of Mankind in chat woft importans Point, the Saivation of ther

Sou.s.

‘T HE SeLF-DECBIVER plainly discovered to Him<err: Or,

The Senious CnetsTias toftiu@ed in his Lury w GOD,

to Himsetsy, and to his Neic@sour. In some ptivats Conerea-

ces between @ Munifter and his Varifhioner.

By CLEMENT ELLIS, M.A.

Late ReGtor of Kirkby in Noainghamihire, Prebend of Southwell,

and Fellow of Queen’s College, Oxon.

Homo fe now fallat, DUUS non fallit Aug. Homil. 40.

Princed tor C. RivinG tow, at the Bibie aud Crown in St. Paul’s

Church: Yard; and . BRADLEY, Bookseller in Chesterheid. Pr.gs.

if the World sould be persuaded te lay aside tts Itch after Contrever-

fal Pieces, which ave the Bane of Christianity, and vould be, as it

ouch, delighted with such Wriiings as weuld better the Lives of Men,

vather than amuse and puxxle their Underfiandings, a more wfeful Book

tomld not be vecommended to the Publick, it containing the whole Ira-

Gical Duty of @ Devort Christian, in all its varicus Branches.

Where may be had, the Second Edition, of

An Exposition on the Turn ty Nine ARTICLES of the Church

of England : Founced on the Holy Seriptures and the Fathers of the

Thiee first Centuries By J). VENEER, Reftor ct St. Andrews in

Chicheftey.

This Day is prblivhen,

In Three neat Pocket Velumes,

ISSCELLANIES in PROSE and VERSE by the Rev. Dr.

Swier, Dr. ARpUTHNOT, Mr. PoPE, oe. ;

Lrinted tor LB. Mutce in Fleet-street; and ioid by W. Bickerton

at Lord Bacon's Head without Temple-Bary and Lawton Gilliver,

at Homer’s Head against Sc. Dunstan’s Churchy Fleet fireet.

li hve may be had,

1. A new Edit. ¢ the Dunctap, with some additional Notes and

Epigrams.

2. An Author to be Lerr.

Blythe-honfe, Hammersmith.

Whereas A LATIN GRAMMAR (price 25.) published by

Mr. Gray, and pretended t> be a collection tioss several very

learned masters, is Nothing else than my New Sibeme much defacd :

fo ill printed too, thar guere ave, to 8, pages ot the book, tour

large pages of Addenda, and one page ot only some of the Errata

in a {mali letter. This is to give notice, that (to prevent the trouble,

those geutlemen, who teach my Grammar, mult have {rom this poor

Expedient) I hive given orders co Afr. Noon ef Cheapside, to fell my

Grammar ior the ule ot Schuols (price 1s.) separate from the Criti-

cal Appendix and Notes (which rae it to 7s. 6 d. and with the Frontispiece, to 48+) tila New Edition of it can be printed tor their

ufe.

SOLOMON LOW8.

At the same place may be had Mr, Lowe's Rudiments (more comprehensive than Lily's; or the Westminster Grammat) either in 4

table, or On one side ot alheet of Paper (price 6d.) in o?avey with

initiatory systems of Rhetoric and Profody (price 9d) And, on the

fame plan. 1 the fame form, his Jtalian Rudiments: as allo kis Greek

and Fren.b Grammars, his Vocabulary, Sententia pusviles, English

Examples, Greek Characters, and Critiques on Lily, Busby, Prat,

Friend, Boyer, Altieri, &c. with An Essay om Edmation, propolig

A Mechoi of instru&ion, by which The gromnds of any langwage may

be learn'd in a Few Hours, fe aswo read an author, ond wriie in-

celligibly.

This Day is publiser,

PROPOSALS,:

For Paintixe by SuBseRiprioy,

HE Necoriariows and Emsasstzs of Sir THOMAS

ROE, Knot. Privy-Couniellor to King Cuarzes I. and

Ct.ancellor of the most Noble Order of the GARTER. From the

Year 1620, to the Year 1544. In which Time he was Embafla-

der Extraordinary from King JAmeEs I. and King CHARr4res I. 10

the Grand Signor, the Emperor, the Kings of Poland, Sweden, and

Denmaik, and ¢o the Principal EleGtors ot the Empire; as allio co

the Dyet of Ratisbonne. The greatest Part designed by himself to

be made publick. To which will be added, many others, whic

he intended rot to publish, as being of too private a Nature to b

made publickin Times of Jeal afy and Diftraétion. Inverfperfed with

a large Account ot the Lmbaflies of Sir RosER'rT ANSTRUTRER,

Sir IsAac WaAKge, Sir W1LLIAM BoswELL, Sir DuDLEY CaRLE-

Tow, the Lord Scupanmore, the Earl of Letcgystrer, the Most-

learned and Ever-memorable Earl of ARUNDEL, and other VPiinci-

pal Ministers ot that Time. To which are added, Authentick Ad-

vices, Original Powers ard Instructions, Treaties of Peace and of

Commerce, and many Rare and Valuable Pieces, of great Ule to

clear up the History of that Important Period. All trom their Ori-

ginal Letters and Papers of Scare.

LETTERS; fays my Lord Bacon, written from wife Men, are,

of all the Words of Mam, in my Judgment, the bef, for they

are more natuial then Orations asd public Speeches, ed are

move advised than Conferences er present Speeches. So again

Letrers of Affairs from {ach as manage them, or ave privy to

them, are, of al. others, the best Instru@ions fer Hillory, and go

a diligent Readcr the bef Histories in themselves.

Baconi Opera, Vol. Il. p.463.

Sub titulo De Aug. Scientiar.

N.B. This Worx, ‘tiscompnted, will make fve Volumes in Folio ;

and no more than soo will be printed, at 18 s. only each Volume;

and it upwards of 400 be {ub{cribed for, the Wonk Mhall be render’d

fill cheaper co the Publick, and allowed for in the second Payment.

PropPosacs are deliver'd gratis, together with some Account of

the WOR, and a Specimen of a few of the Lprrers, by S,

RicHA Dsown in Salisbury-Court, Fleet- Street, and S. PALMER and

J. Hugconson in Bartholomew-Close; and by ihe following Book-

fellers; viz.

Mell, Keaplock, Inmys, and Rivington, in St. Paul’s Church-yard ;

Meff. Betsesworth, and Hitch, in Pacer-Noftcer Row; Mefl. Fayram,

Strahan, Brotherton, Hinchcliffe, and Walshee, in Cornhill; Meff. Pem-

berton, Gofling, Weedward, Wotten, Clay, Brown, Gilliver, and Corgan,

near Temple. Bar; Mell. King and Stagg, in Westminster-Hall; Mr,

Clements, at Oxtord; Mr. Crownfield, as Cambridge; Mr. Leake, at

Bath; and Me. Ad Swen, at Edinburgh.

This Day is published,

Tothe Right Honourabie LivmMPrHagy |

. Ciy * Loud

A Coneratulatory Porm vp his) Lor thip’s accession ‘

Chair. by EOwarnno Ward. Pritte, tor J Wiztrorp ms

Three blower de Luces, Defuua -he Chaprer-teonfe in S¢ t

Church-Yara. Price: %. ‘

ansoxs, Lord Mayorof the

the

the

Paul's

a

The belf WarTeER in the Wor tp,

So called by those who have experienced it to be fo,

ur any liching Humours.

for the Itc,

hath been taken inwardly for the fixG’s-Eviz, 7. :

Fo cure fore ~~ Of any uchet Sure, Ulcers, or bifkula’y fi

piclerved several trom Ravicg cheir Limbs cut off, whe : $

means have taied. » when all other

The Price on the Bottle, One Shilling and Six Pence,

It is to be sold at Afr. Gomdge's, at the Caftic in Weltm;

Spe ttrair fer. »

Mr. Radford s Toy Sh ‘Ps ac the Roie aud Crowa Pstoronnt me way

men’s Chutch-Yaid im the Strand, near Aruncel- street oc

at Afrs. Raw's at the Nor:h-Enwance of the Royal Exchan e » end

against Bartholomew-Lane. Be, Over:

BOOKS printes tor JoHN BAOTHERTON, at cue Bible REXt the

Fleece Tavera in Cornuill.

Blair’s Sermons, ¢ Volg,

Lite ot Oliver Cromwel

Gordon’s Geog. Grammar

Boileau Ocvre pvetique

Pilgrim’s Progress

Tales of the Fairs, 3 Vol,

English Tutor

Musical Dictionary

Shakespear's Plays

Congreve’s Works

Garth’s Ovid

Cambden’s Britannia

Bur kit on the New Testament

L’&strange’s Jolephus

Tillotfun’s Works, @ Vols.

Bacon’s Works, 4 Vols,

Lock’s Works, 3 Vol

Oldenburgh o: Exchanges

Addison’s Works, 4 Vols. 4to

Puffend 1i’s Law ct Nature

Bailey’ D.Qionary, fol.

Wood’s Institutes, tol.

Carckas’s Rates, fii. Boyer’s Telemachus

Stevens’s Spanish Dictionary Meige’s State ot Britain.

With Variety ot single i’lays and Pamphlets,

This Day is pubtites,

In a meat Pocket Volume, Price 2s. 6c. the Second Edition with Ad-

ditions of

T HE Intelligencer. By the celebrated Author of the Taleot aTud

Omne vafer vitinm ridenti Flaccus amico ,

Tangit, & Admiffus circum precordia ludit,

Containing, The inhofpitable Temper ot ’Squire Werher.

PaaS A Vindication of Mr.Gay, and the Begyar's Opera. = The Folly of Gaming.

A Description of what the World calls Difretion, A Represen-

tation of the pieient Condition of Ireland.

rufodes aud Lugenio. A Dialogue between Muliniz and Timo-

thy. The teolifh Methods ot Education among the Nobility,

Tim. and Gay’s Fables. — Proposals in Proje and Verle for an um

versal View ot the eminent Writers of the Holy Scriptures. Sir

Ralph the Patriot turn’d Courtiers The Acc ot Story-telling. Pro-

metheuss Art of Man- making, and the Tale of a T--d. The

Services the Draper has done his Country, and the Steps taken te

ruin it The Adventures of the three Brothers, George, Purick

and Andrew. |= The Marks of Ireland's Poverty, shewn to be evi-

dent Proots of its Riches. S:. Andrew’s Day, and the Draper’s

Birth-day. The Hardships of the Irith being deprived of their

Silver, and decoy’d into America. Dean Smediey gone to feek his

Fortune. The Pheasant and the Lark: A Fable.

Printed tor, and fold by Fiancis Cogan, 0; the Middle-temple-gate

in Fleet-street.

The s of Co.

Dr. GODFREY’s General Cordial,

So universally approved of for the Cholick, and all manner of

Pains in the Bowels, Fiuxes, Fevers, Small-Pox, Meafles,

Rheumatisms, and Keftleffnets ix Men, Wimen, and Clilde

ven; and particularly for several Ailments incident to Childe

bearing women, and Relief of young Children in breeding their

Teeth,

S fuld in most Cities, Boroughs, and Market-Towns

throughout Great-Britain and Ireland; removd from

Hunfdon to Broxborn in Herttordfh're: And tor the Conve-

niency of supplying all those parts, there are established by

me BENJAMIN GODFREY thefé following Whaole-

sale Warehousts, viz.

John Weftlake’s in Queen-street, Bristol;

William Furly’s, Dittiller, at the Black Prince, in the

Market-Place, in the City of Norwich.

Peter Leadbeater’s, Distiller, in Weft Chester; .

Mr. Burron’s, Bookseller, on the Bridge at Newcaftic

upon Tync 3 :

Mr. Brooke’s, Distiller, on the Blind-key, Dublin.

As also at my Originals Warehouse, facing Angel-Allejs

without Bishopsgate, London.

Any reputable Shop-keeper in any City, Borough, of

Market-Town, where this Medicine is not already fold, may

befupply’d at any of the said Ware-houses with good Al-

lowance, at

N.B. The Publick are desired to take Notice, (to prevent

being imposed on) that there is an ill minded Person 0

counterfeits the said Medicine, and puts the Title of Gov

frey’s Cordial on the top of the Bottles and in his Bulls aR

with the Bottles, he calls it Tle GENERAL COW

DIAL, and does not put the Person’s Name whe prepaiss

it, but as this Counterfeit Maker is now found out by hs

own Confession, he and his Sellers will be prosecuted as m

Law directs (as Impostors): And to prevent the Buyers from

being impos’d on, I have put my Christian Name on tre

Top of each Bottle, which is prepared

By me Benjamin Godfrey, M. D.

The price of each Bottle is 6d.

LONDON: Printed by A. Moore, for Captain Gulliver, near the Temple, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in.

[Price Two Pence.]

