.

The Grub-street Journal.’ xs

Numb. 51.

Thursday, DECEMBER 24, 1730.

a

Tu ne quefieris [cire (nefas) quem mibi, quem |

tibt .

Finem Di derint. -

Hor. Carm. I. rr.

4 Discourse read before the Grubzean Society, concerning

~ the Almanacks for the year 1731, by WitttaM Bick-

exsTAFF, Esq;

™ a% HE knowledge of Futurity has been fo much

thirsted after, from the first ages down to

the present time : that those, who are poffef-

fed of it, have been always held in the

_3 highest esteem. Magicians, Astrologers, Pro-

Prophets, Augurs were fo regarded among the ancients 5

that no King would enter on any important affair; no

General would begin a battle, without their approbation.

Nay, even the greatest Monarchs have exercised these aits ;

and placed themselves at the head of those, who professed

them. The honours and profits, which have justly at-

tended such noble and useful profeffions, have been the

cause that many illiterate and ill-designing persons have

attempted to guess at future events, without being ac-

quainted with those arts, by which alone they are to be

known. The ignorance of these pretenders to science has

brought the art itself into contempt : and many have en-

tertained an opinion, that the knowledge of futurity is, in

its own nature, impoflible. I remember, that some years

ago one of these pretenders picked up a great deal of mo-

ney, by giving people advice in choosing lottery tickets.

He had a shilling of every one who consulted him, and

eighteen pence more, *if the ticket recommended came up

a prize. On these conditions the Fellow would have re-

commended every ticket in the Lottery. The fieve and |

fhears, coffee-grounds, and many other such like fooleries, |

are too trifling for me to take any notice of them.

I hope I shall not offend this illustrious Society, if I

declare that this: discourse is levelled against some of its

Members. I mean the writers of the common Almanacks:

whose ignorance was fo well exposed above twenty years

ago by my late learned Uncle, Isaac Bicxerstarr, Efqs

that it is surprizing, that they are able any longer to im-

| liberty. to

| tradi€tory predittions for the next year.

4

pose upon the publick. He abundantly vindicated thé

noble art of Astrology, by publishing a fet of prediétions,

every one of which, you all know, was exacth fulfilled:

One prediétion, indeed, drew om him a troublefo.e de-

bate with one Partrraipces, an Almanack writer at that

time : whom he shewed to be fo ignorant of futurity, as

not to foresee his own death: which my Unkle exaétly

foretold. This man was fo impertinent as not to own

his being dead: and even abused my Unkle for affirming

it. But the truth of his assertion has been long since

acknowledged universally; tho’ some body still takes the

ublish Almanacks under the name of Par-

TRipGe. The ignorance of these men must needs be evi-

dent to all impartial pérfons, who will but give them-

selves the trouble to compare their various, and even con-

I have conft-

dered seventeen of these Almanacks, and thrown their pre-

dictions of the weather for the month of January into a

{cheme; by which you may fee at one view, what cres

dit is to be given to these Gentlemen.

a) Gadbury | Partridge | Andrews \ Coley Lane, | Pearfe | Saunders \f.Wing| Moore | Swatlew | Cu'pepper Fly Perkins | Trigge | Weaver horece. | V.Wing

1} The year Cold clou-| The year | The year | Cold win- C ld, vaw and (Cold About this | Frofty Froft |Sleet or Sharp [Cold

° : : ’ ] -. Mi moitt wea her . . « S , fh .

2! begins dy weath. | begins is ufher’d | terly wea-; Mild | Mon’ wa OS" Train of jtime the j|morn ‘Snow {& fnow. | showers freez- | pinch-

5 with good jin with | ther begins | ming, nee 6 Vleet. = | wind will |ings. Inclin’d ‘or cold now a- ing ing

4{with cold |Snow or seasonable | very feafo-|the year. {air wiod and blow, Frofty | to wet jrain. bout. | weath. | frost.

flabb fleet is and nable and storms bringing And to us and fair. } with Cloud

5 y wh ] { Froft like Froft inow or cold d H c ld y

6 thf OCOMe y rain, and will peodace Wind 1 we d Sh & very,

7iweather [now ex- healthful . probably con- | Now | some rain indy | winds. arp cold.

3 pected. |weather. | weather. tinue euch — cold & Jor fnow. fandcold; — froits | Cloudy Cloud

9 Froft like, weather. | morn- My turbulent {cloudy {Cold rain | winds & with {andcold & cold.

10 whichfoon ’ or fnow, cloudy “nt or ' {now or ies

iI turns to | Now vari- ' Now plen- ings. and if it |Snow or ect. {| fleet. ough | Snow or

12 rain ety of cold | ty of cold | Cold Stormy storms { hits, cold Cold winds, Snowor| cold

13 or : rain sities ite of fnow | About this] rain. | rain, perhaps ‘cold | rain,

14| Somefnow rain and jor fnow | Wind, Weather |} Full Moon andj}now —_| time some show, . frost & — rain.

15 | about this cold fleet. | fnow, but | and bluft- | being . then we may | near froit by — or fleet. | Frofty. bdo | fnow.

16| time soon more | ering over ca ve — this fits. | moi & {tor- ,

17 Now mildand | winds for | for fnow wy d . The time. 'And now | airand Open | my, Windy Windy Much

18 more fair. | fair. some days,| or cold continuance; |Frofty |youmay |tempe | weath. : with with and bad winter

19 mild and | rain now but ee “4 }& cold jexpeéta- |rate. | forfome plenty ‘rain or weath.

20| Much rain | Very cold, ' Pretty good wea- ! about. Cold | Rate wi, {some [gain — days # | of fnow. weath.

21\towards {but soon l sood for jther. Winds. | fyme downfal of | days. Some {now s i

22! the latter the season. frowor rains |Wind = {as alto ‘fal.

Now tome mov- 7 . iV

23 oe seta hy _ wind and Snow bid is bse Wha | Frofty Snow or

24 an ole air with mila and re- rain. : eenney , vony , Ug & oy fleet.

25 ipleaf.cays (ex | quent | Before this i 1 ie ~~ “' air. winds, jcold. |

26 ' High High and pro- Snow or cept foam {tor- showers month out In y or rain tormy ' rol

27; end of the Jabatement | winds and | winds bably cold p> alpen Rat Cold does go, weath. now a- weath. jwith with

28 with open | very severe| and very Mon) may | fiormy | [twill pro bouts. {| doing foine open {Store of Froft

29;month. [windy weather | cold {now expe& mid | Weath. | duce Loth hurt. | pleasant | Winds winter | with

30 weather. ‘in its kind.| and severe] wet. rain. and toa * «e “at this | frofland |days. with weath. 'weath. | {now

31 weather. awe Sree time. | fnow. | | rain. lor fleet.

You fee, Gentlemen, by this scheme, that the rules on

Which these Pretenders found their knowledge, are no

rules. For how, otherwise, could they differ fo widely,

in fo many particulars in the account of one single month?

But whilst I am exposing the false pretensions of these

men, I hope no member of this learned body will ima-

gine, that I intend to decry the art of Astrology itself.

Far be that from me: I have too often seen the predi-

ions, which some of my learned Friends and I myself

have made, on juit calculations formed on the true rules of

this noble art, exaétly fulfilled, to have the least doubt

in this matter. An error has, indeed, some time happened

ina calculation: but that is to be imputed, not to the

art, but to the negligénce or inattention of its Professors.

am fure Ican fay, without vanity, that the calculations

which I have made for some years, have very seldom proved

Ctroneous. But as I have laid before you the groundiels

Predictions of the several writers of Almanacks, you will,

hot without reason, expect that I should produce my own

[Aa which I am ready to do for the month of

anuary.

This month will begin with ry

hard frof, whith will

Continue for about a week. e

Tha or » ae 74 , Of,

L0@EnR we Ma’ expect {ome

fabiy unpeajant weather, till the Ful! moon: when the

f, : be . ? »? > ° 9 -

frost will return, with bladering winds ad great arifts

of now, by fits, til! the Ne YMIdI: after cubic hy Ve Way

fh 2 leah 14 fawerry. « lL» ? ° i 2007

ft for fine JEajnarse weds Vel > tg tre Cla of tveé 9 th.

If what these Gentlemen tell us of the weather be pre-

carious : their political prediétions are {till more contemp-

tible. ¢ This month, favs Gapsury ({peaking of Janua-

‘ ry) the hostile Mars enters into the house of Jupiter,

‘from his own house. This stirs up tumultuous and fe-

‘ ditious spirits to beat the air, and plow the clouds, and

* reap acrop of wind. Parrripce tellsus, ‘ We have in

‘this month an opposition of Mars and Jupiter, and a

‘ conjunction of Mars and Saturn in ¥, whole effects will

‘ manifest themselves in several parts of the world. An-

pDREWs fays, ‘ Some untoward designs are now. in agitati-

‘on, and amany close contrivances and under and deal-

‘ ings, but a little more time will discover their intrigues,

* and fet all things to rights. Couey ules almost the very

{ame words with Anprews, as does also the learned Dr.

Moore, only this lait adds, *‘ That many persons that

‘ thought themselves secure, are now brought to a con-

‘ session of their Iniquity. Weaver speaks much to the

fame purpose, fayings ¢ Uproars and tumults, with {edi-

‘ tious conspiracies, are about this time in agitation. Sure

no man med have recourse to any rules of art, to form

such wretched prediétions; which every {chool-boy might

gue{fs without any rule at all. Joun Wine fays nothing

this Whole month, but Great and unexpected News. A

great and unexpected affair will indeed happen about the

! end of this month, but I defv him to teil what it is;

and immediately salutes him with an angry opposition |

tho’ I intend myself to explain it to you by and by. But

all these are exceeded by that ridiculous shadow of a

predi€téon, in PEARsgE :

4s touching what the farry rules relate,

Muxdane affairs are in a mode-ate flate.

But enough of these triflers. I shall now proceed te

lay before you the Predi¢tions which I have formed my-

felt: and will flake ‘all the reputation I have in the world,

on the fulfilling of them.

The Conjunction of 3 and 9 om the fourth day fiz-

nifies an unexpedled conclusion-of a marriage. The Con-

junction of (°\ and ~ on the tenth foretels it will be brought

to light about that time. The Ofpohtion of Y and & from

(Q and }, at the time of the Full moon, Y beire retro-

grade, foews that a great man will be a'mofl forced ixto a

war, against bis inclinations. The Conjunction of fy and &

on the twenty feventh, signifies great military preoarations

in Ge many, or some of the more northern kingdoms: avd

the Sexti'e of 3 and Q on the laf? day, forete!s jome more

perbaps, death of a certain great Lad;: which I take to

be the Great and unexpected News binted at in Mr Wing's

Almanack. Ihope, Gentlemen, that you will all carefully

observe the fulfilling of every one of the Predi@tions: and

am contented that you should hereafter measure your esteem

of me by the truth of them.

pacifick appearances, caused by the disappointment, ard,

EON D-O N.

Important Articles of news omitted ia our laf.

Mond. evening a poor man, much in liquor, coming

erofs Moor-fields, was knocked down. [a second time] &e.

and ro»bed of his hat andwig. C. Dec. 10. —— Yester-

day morning a Farmer at Ware, coming to Town, was

robbed by 2 Foot-pais of a guinea, &c. C. Dec. 11. ——

Laft night the Wite of Mr. Grovchouse of Wych-freer,

was buried in Bunhil!-fields in a very f{plendid manner. C.

Dec. 12- ——— Sund. died in Mare-street, Hackney, the

Reliét of Carter, Efe; &c. P. ——— Laft thurf. one

Kingston, who used to hawk pens, wax, &c. about fireets,

cut his throat from ear to ear, &c. DF. —— Laft week

died Mr. Girkin, Livery-servant to the Princess Royal. C.

De. 14. Frid. last died Mr. Stafford, an Attorney

of Grayseinn.

DP.

Tuurspay, Dec. 17,

On thurfd. the 3d inft. came on the election of Gover-

hor; Dep. Governor, and Assistants of the Company ot Mi-

neral and Battery works, &c. There was a great struggle

about the choice of a Dep. Governor, when Sir Fither

Tench, Bar. was chosen in the room of Kingsmill Eyre,

Efg; by a majority of ¢ votes. P. EP. SF. LE.

We are assured Mr. Baker, firstt Yeoman of the Ewry,

wil] succeed Mr. Padnefh, as Gentleman of the Ewry. P.

-—— Mr. Barker. WE. We hear that Mr. Ric. Blake

moor, Gent. to the FE. of Chesterfield, will succeed Tho

Badnech, Esq;&c. DP. EP. SF. LE. The D J.

of Dec. 15. said, Mr. Barker was appointed to fuc-

ceed him.

Laft tuefd. Mr. Dunn, a Felmonger in High Wycom,

getting up about sin the morning, a person went up stairs

where his Wite was in bed: and having a cafe knite in his

hand, said it to her throat, and threatning her, if the did

not declare where the money was, he would ki!l her in-

stantly: in the ‘right the told him, and he found about so

guineas, and a crown in silver, and tore the ear-rings out

of herears, took the rings off her fingers, and a gold chain

from her neck. When the villain was gone, the went

down stairs. Pursuit was made but in vain, for the rogue

got off undiscovered. P. E P. 8 f.——It is often of dan-

gerous capsequence, for a Uusband to leave bis Wife in bed

fo early in a morning.

Laft week the following Warrants under his Majesty’s

sign Manual, were issued out from the D. of Newc ttie’s

office to the fevera! Gentlemen undernamed, for employ-

meats in Carolina. —-— For South-Carolina: Rich. Wright,

Eig; to be Ch Justice; John Hammerton, Efqs to be Se-

cretary during life; Jam. Abercrombie, Efg; Atrorney-Gee

neral; Mr. Tho Lownds, Provost Marshal for lite

For North Carolina. Joh. Smith, E{q; Ch. Justice; Nath.

Rice, Esq; Secretary; Jam. Montgomery, Efg; Attorney-

General; Joh. Hilton, Eiq; Provost-Marshal. E P.

A few days since, Sir Har. Hicks, Bar. was knocked down,

and cut in a terriile manner, by 2 Street-robbers, in Do-

&ors-Commons, about 5 in the even. where he lay infen-

fible, and loft near a pint of blood. The villains made off,

being frighten’d by some Persons that appeared, and took

nothing from him. C. WE. LE.

A f:w days since a curious Bufto of the R. H Sir Rob.

Walpole, done by Mr. Riesbach, was { nt down to Hough-

ton in Norfolk. DP. EP. SF. WE. Riesbrach. LE.

Monmouth, Dec. 9. (n fund. evening a threatning let-

ter was taken up, directed to Mr. Belchier, [printed in

D J.) This alarmed the whole Town, and the Magistrates

making a diligent search, 2 men and 1 woman were taken

up: the latter made her escape, but was soon retaken, and

committed to gaol. A pen, ink, and paper were found

in her lodgings. About 9 at night the was found dead,

hanging in her {ilk garters: we hear her name is Anne Bros

therton, born of good parentage in WarwickMire, and that

her Husband lives at Evesham jn Worcesterfiire, from

whom fhe eloped some time ago, and hath since lived a

lewd and profligate life. DF. 4 Ev. —— Jt is no won-

der Mrs. Brotherton hang'd berfe/f in her silk gaiteis, d: ing

So dejperately in lave.

Gloucester, Dec. 12. John and Roger Lorrey, going thro’

the Bevizes fund. laf, about 9 in the even. on horses with-

out faddies, were apprehended 5 and John soon confefs'd

they had stolen the horses. Upon farther examination they

said, that a person who goes by the nave of Ned, and

lives near Bath, declared, that he font the letter to Mr.

Packers and Roger fays, that Ned declared to him, that

he fired the house; and fohn faith, that he faw Ned and

his brother Roger together writing about 14 letters, one

of which he faw dropt from one of them near the King’s

Bath. Ned was immediately taken up, and denied that he

knew any thing of the matter: he is committed to Iche-

fter goal, and Johs and Roger to Salisbury : we hear the

2 latter were servants to Mr. Roberts of Bristol. Jéid.

—— John and Roger were but ill equipped for a joxr-

s the want of faddles deing a great hinderance. — Little

beed I think is to be given, without other concurrent cir-

eumplances, to 2vbat either Roger jays, or John faith, they

seeming resolved te bang peer Ned, to fave their own

Geers. :

Moad. night a letters yyag dropt by some of the Incen-

diarise, betoveen’ the hatch and th: door of Mr. Mifller, a

Glover in Moorfields. EP. SF. WE.

Sir Ja. Thornhil and M. le Blon have now finished their

Copies, each in his different way, of the famous Cartoons

of Rapkh.e’, with which several Virtuoli have been ex-

tremely delighted, &c. EP. $F.

Tuefd. night one Whaley, with her 2 fons, were com-

mitted to the new goal in Southwark, for cutting off

Mrs. Jane Kent's pocket in the Gravesend Tit-hoar, £ P.

W E.—- It seems bard to confine a poor induflrious Wo-

man to such a fbop, for bringing up her 2 tons to her own

bufine/s, whith requires none. ‘

Co!. Cosbyi appointed Governor of the Leeward IVands.

SF. LE. InDP. Dec.18.

We hear that a Conge d’Elire is ordered to be directed

to the Dean and Chapter of Litchfield and Coventry, _ for

cleing the Rev, Mr. Dean Clazget into that Bishoprick,

&e, LE.

Letters from Winchester fay, that Sir Sim. Chrke, Bar.

and one who fays he was a Lieut. of a Man of War, were

committed to the Goal there, for 2 robberies on the Highe.

way, near Petersfield in Hants, taking 12 hhillings from

one man, and 26 from another. The last pursued them

to Pe'ersfield, and took them drinking at an Alehouse. The

unfortunate young Bar. is about 24 years of age, of an

ancient family in Warwickshire, &c. The estate of 20001.

per ann. was fold by the Grandtother of Sir Simon; who

being icft by his father very poor, was obliged to go to

fea in 1726. Since his returr, being in very low circum-

stances, mere necessity drove him to this rath action. He

is. said to be a person of good underftanting, and it is

almofimpoiibl: to describe the affli&tion his misfortunes

hive broughthim to. He lies in a poor condition in Win-

chester Goal, and, its hoped, for theantiquity of his family,

the good they have done the publick, the mi fortunes he

has suffered, and its being the first faét he was ever charged

with, some generous person will be moved toaffifthim. LE.

Fripday, Dec. 38.

ond, last, at midnight, the dwelling house of Will:

Kings'ord, Eig; at Chartram, within 5 miles of Canter-

bury, Was consumed by fire in about 2 hours time. Those

that were in the house, were forced to leave their beds

naked, and escape by ladders out of the windows. No

One, as yet, is able to form an Idea how it began : his

furniture, together with his plate. jewels. and all his wri-

tings, are consumed, The whole lofs is computed at a>

bout 10,0001. C.

. Laft night the K. and Q. &c. were at the Theatre-

Royal in Drury kane, to see the Tempest, and the Masque

of Cephalus, &c. with the Pantomime, called Harlequin

Granc-Volgi. This is the 3d time their Majesties, &c.

have honoured the pertormance ef that Entertainment with

their Royal presence. D P.

Dea/, Dec. 13. We hear from Sutton, 3 miles from

thi. place, that Mr. May had an incendiary letter brought

to him by his servant: whereupon he fent to Sir Rob.

Furnefe, who causing the said servant to write, it appeire

ed, that altho’ he avoided to write as usual, yet by ieveral

ot the ietters, the hande« riting was the fame. DF.

SatTurpay, Dec. 19.

Yesterday John Lewis and John Jones stood on the pi!-

lory at the Royal Exchange,’ for conf{piring to charge John

Battle with Sodomy, and extorting money from him on

that pretence. They were severely handled by the popu-

lace. C. &e.

Thursd. morn. a great number of idle and disorderly per-

fons, apprehended the night before,’ were examined by Sir

Jolin Gonfon, -&c. of them z men and 5° women were

committe! to Tothil-felds Bridewell, to hard labour. One

of the men was taken as he was cutting lead out of the

gutter of an empty house in George-yard in Dean-street ;

and is the fame man whoon mond last was whipt round

Soho-{guare, for stealing lead. DP. DF. EP. SF.

LE. ----— He was taken again in the fame gutter, cutting

more lead. P. WE. —— He ought, Ithink, to be whipt

round Soho-{quare 3 times at /ea/t, with the stolen lead

upon bis 3ack. |

Wedn. Mr. Hobbs was {worn in Messenger of the

Robes to his Majesty. P. WE.

We hear that the Welsh Copper Company have lett the

working of one of their rich Lead Mines, called the Gar-

rows in Cornwa), to Mr. Edm. Muore, who, before the

Company was poile{s’d thereof, wrought the fame, and

produced 120 ounces of silver from every tonof Lead. He

is to raise the Ore at his own expence, and to deliver the

fame to the Directors at a price certain, &c. DF. SF.

Thursd. night, the Cook at the King’s-arms ‘Tavern in

Pall-Mall, going to bed between 12 and 1. found a man

wrapt up in the bed-cloaths; which put him into such a

{urprize, that he made his escape down stairs into the

streets, and ran a great way before he could be taken :

upon his examination he confessed, that a Woman put him

upon concealing himéelf in the hout?, &c. that his name

was Will. Ferril, born in Ireland; and that he lived Jately

as a Footman with one Mr. Shepherd at the Bath; the

oo committed him to Newgate. DP. 4 Ev. -——

efterday one Wij. Farral, an Jrifiman, who, as he {iid,

*

—s

latedy served Beau Nath, was committed to Newente, fae

stealing linnen, &c from the King’s-arms Tavern in Palj.

‘Mall. P. — This account of Will. Ferril seems to bave

been written by one of bis Country-men. The Cook ges

in no surprize aé finding a man wrapt up in the bed -cloaths,

but put the peor mar into such a turprize, that he made

his escape, which a surprize generally hinders : as did his

at last, for be was farprifed a feco:d time, and taken,

We hear that the Queen having had a very advantagcous

charaéter of the Figures, representing the Court of France,

and all copy’d from the lite, by that celebrated Arti My,

Goffett, ordered them to be brought to Cour , and an a.

partment being appointed for th placing ther, they were

seen by their Majesties, and the Royal Family, on wédn.f.

day, with the highest ap, robation; and the Q. was {g

delighted, that fhe immediately ordered Mr. Goflett to fegd

for the English Court, which their Majesties allo faw with

the utmost fatis‘action, and her Majesty was gracious

pleased to make the Artist a very handiome present; {

that now these Figures have had the approbation of the

English and FrenchCourts. DP. SF. LE. —— The Roya

al notice and munificence is the greatef? inceuragement ‘tg

all ingenious and ingenuous Arts.

An infallible Cure tor the bite of a mad dog. ~— Take

6 ounces of rue, clean’d, pick’d, and bruis’d : 4 ounces of

garlick, pecl’d and bruis’d: 4 ounces of Venice treacle :

ounces of fild pewter, or icrap’d tin. Boi! these in 2

warts of the best ale, ina pan cover’d close, over a gentie

dies for 1 hour; then strain the ingredients from the lie

quor. Give $ or 9 {poontuls of it warm to a Man or Woe

man 3 mornings tafting, and cold to any bealt fafting; g

or 9 ipoonfuls 1s sufficient for the ftiengeft, a less cuan.

tity to those younger, or of a weaker constitution; t1@

or 12 for a horse or bullock 3, 4, or § fora flicep, hog,

or dog. This nvuft be given within 9 days after the bite;

and never fails either in man or beast. If you can conve.

niently, bind some of the ingredients on the wound, p,

4 Ev. —— This, if not an ii falible, zs certainly a much

more agretable medicine, than that which is generall

used in this cafe, and in that of matrimony, I mean, Pre

tience upon torce.——= Tf it be inconvenient to ttrain the

ingredients from the liquor, 2t wi// do as well to strain the

liquor from the ingre ients.

This day Will Halliwell, the old Beadle, and Will. Hug-

gins, the young Waterman stood in the pillory in S. Paui’s

Church-yard, ‘or fodon itical practices on the great staire

cafe leading to the top ot S. Paul's. Halliwell! is also to

pay 40]. fine, and to fuffr 6 months imprisonment, and

Huggins to suffer 8. ¢ Bv.—They were severe'y handled by

the Populace, who tore their cloaths off their backs, and

then whipt them desperatcly, and pelted them with mud,

rotten eggs, &c. They were taken down 25 miuutes bee

fore their time was expired, on account they were judg’d

to be expiring. Yesterday Hollowell lay at the point of

death. DF. Dec. 21.

Thursd. the C. de Brog'io, Ambassador Extr. frem the

K. of Fiance, gave a very magnilicent entertainment at

his house in Piccadilly, to several Ambassadors, &c. at which

were present the R. H. the L. Mayor and the Lady Mayor-

cfs. SF. WE.

An etteAual flop is put to the going of counterf-it half-

pence, which have gone fo current for several sears, which

has been occasioned t y the Makei’s delivertag out 6s. werth

for 5s intilver. § F. |

‘Thurid. last Mr. jof. Crew was appointed Col'eftor of

the Cufloms at the Port of Exeter. LE. J°C. and DP.

Dec. 21.

Monpay, Dec. 21.

Sat. Phil. Powis, E(q; Nephew to Sir Littleton Powis,

was married to Miss Lyblbe, of Oxtordshire, a fortune of

40,0001. C. DP.

The fame day Count Nassau, Brother to the Earl of

Grantham, arrived here from Holland. 73/¢. And the L.

Middlesex [eldest] fon to the D. of Dorset, fer out for

his travels, tor France, Italy, &c. P.

Sat. night about 41, a fire brote out rear Union fairs,

Wapping, which consumed 4 houses and a pile of Deals.

P. — Yetlerday morn. about 2, &c. which burnt 3 houses

and z piles of Deal boards. D P. About 1 in the morn.

a fire broke out at a Glazier’s, near Union stars in Wap-

ping, Which, in a fllort {pace consumed the fame, and

another adjoining, &e. DF. fi. e. the fime Ur ion stair's

&c.} ~—— The iame day 11 p tfois were committed to

New Prison, and 1 to Newgate, for fealing at the said

fre. P. DF.

elterday, about noon, and not before, the dead Ward

rant came down to Newgate, ordering the execution of

the Malefa¢tors at Tyburn, wednesday next. DF. Theg

names are Ab. White, Franc. Saunders, John Mines, Robe

Tyler, Will. Brabyn, James Hall, John Barnet, Will. Hol-

lind, Pet. Norman, John Smith, Rich. Smith, and Will.

Whitford, all for Street-robberies; and Jofhiua Cornwall for

Burglary. —~ The P. of sat. Dec. 19. fay:, the dead Ware

rant camedownlaft night

A new Comedy culled the Spendthrift, is now getting

up at the new Theatre in the Hayemarket, which, w4

hear, bids fair for the best pertormance ef that fort tka

Town is likely to be entertained with this f{eafon. P.

. Tursvay, Dee. 22.

» Friday last 2 persons were committed to Winchester Goa’,

for fending 4 threatning letter to Dr. Cooke of the Isle

of Wight, 1 his confessed the faét. DF. |

Yesterday John Jones and John Lewes stood in the pil.

in Crutchéd Friars. C. DP. DF. and were fo {e-

verely treated by the mob, that it 1s thought they cannot

recover. P.

The fame day a reprieve camedown to Newgate during his

Majesty’s pleasure, tor Joshua Cornwall. P. Litt

night a reprieve came down to Newgate for ref{piting

the execution of Charles Ray, condemn’d for stealing ¢

wat#hes; and he is shortly to undergo the experiment of

having the drum ot his ear cut out, and is afterwards to

have his Majesty’s most gracious tree pardon. D ¥.

Yesterday the Rev. Dr. Penny, Rector of Beddington in

Surry, had the honour to kifs the King’s hand, &c. on

his being appointe1 !*ean of Litchfield and Coventry. D P.

Wep NESDAY, Dee. 23.

One Margaret Coe, of the Parish of St. Saviour, South-

‘ wark, Died a few Days since, in the re4th Year of her

Age. She was 21 years old when King Charles the First |

was beheaded, and was a servant at Whitehall; fhe faw

the Executioner hold up the Head after he had cut it of,

and remember’d the diimal Groan that was made by the

yaft multitude of spectators when the fatal blow was given 3

her husband was afterwards waterman to King Charles the

Second, and kept his Fish-ponds in Southwark, which have

since been fill’d up. She liv’d upon Milk-Diet for about

twenty years palt, not eating any flesh all the time. DP.

Sir '2remy Sambroke, Bar. stands a Candidate to repre-

fent the Town of Bedford in Parliament, in the Room of

James Medcalfe, E(qs deceased. did.

From the Pegasus in GrubSfreet.

This day the 13 Malefaétors were executed at Tyburn.

A paraphrastical Variation of an Epigram printed in our

last Fournal, done by a Poetical Alehouse-keeper at Islington,

who seems already to excell his Brother at the Red Lion in

W—, and may in time rife to the fame of a much more

celebrated Brother, that ingenious Member of our Society

Mr.Epwarp Warp.

In ancient days, when pensions, bribes, and {creens

Were things unknown in Senate, and at Court;

Then was the glorious time, when Kings and Queens

For pride kept Poets, and kept Fools for sport :

But now frugality, which bears such rule,

Joins pride and {port, a Poerand a Foon.

An Ericram.

Hen Pore difplay’d in pompous rhime

The reign of Du//ne/s in our clime 5

Evspen (quoth he) /Aa//.cvear the Bays,

Cisper be Chancellour of plays!

When Euspen ftoop’d, alafs! to fate,

Cipper upheld alone her state:

Then for one place fhe gave him two; |

No other way the Goddels knew

Her own cut-doings to out doe. 5

A Question by AnonyMovs.

ELL, if you can, which did the worse,

Caligula, or Gr——n’s Gr—ce?

That made a Conful of a Horse,

And this a Laureate of an Afs.

4

Au Answer by Mr. Mavrus.

O Roman Souls what more contemptuous deed,

Than o'er their heads to place a neighing Steed ?,

Our Caprain faw the proud, tyrannick f{way,

Where Houvununms govern, and Yaoos obey :

Unnatural rule ! — But here in British climes,

Where in lewd Prose, or lufcious Ballad rhimes,

Our Poets write the sentiments of Brutes 3

Where Players, turn’d to l’aytomimic Mutes,

In dance express the 4/ack, lafcivious Fake,

On Pagan Stage ne'er aéted, nor e’en spoke :

‘Where, whether they applaud or damn the Play,

eaus, Cits, Clerks, Prentices like Affes bray 5

Who better than an Ass with laureli’d pride

O’er Authors, A€tors, Audience can preside ?

Our Correspondents are desired to fend us yg more Ver-

fes relating to this Subje€t, which turn upon the Genteel

Appeliations of Fie/ and A/s 3 all the wit which can be pro-

duced from them having been anticipated in thele and some

Preceding Copies.

@yswer to an Ericram printed in the S. James's

Evening Poff, fat. Dec. 12. and ending

Admire a Vircit, and disdain a Pore.

F fone must be admir’d but Poets born,

Admire a Homgr, and a Viroit {corn 3

dmire a Horace, and contemn Boi.eau;

Admize a Daven, and despite a Rewk,

But if on such as these with scorn we look;

What muit be done to W p, T—p,; C-kx?

Scorn were too little from each honest Briton ;

Theie should be pump’d, duck’d, pillory’d, pift, and fh--- on.

Edinburgh, De:. 10. They write from Dumfarinling

that the hon. Sir Hen. Wardlaw, Bar. died lately at his

lodgings there, of an indisposition contracted at Gibraltar

in 1728, during the siege. C. 17. Dumfermling. P. Dum-

firmling. Wardlow. D P.— Dec. 14. Lait week the Wife

of James Beattleship Carpenter in Leith, was iafely deli-

ver'd of 3 fons, all like to do well: he is about 80, and

had never any Children before. C. 22. Beattie Ship-Car-

penter. P. It is my opinion he has really none nov.

Laft thurf. night, the house of Mr.ThomTaxman of Priest-

field Parks, was entirely consum’d. The people had but

just gone to bed, and the fire broke out on the outside of

the house, as they imagin'd. ~The 2 famous rogues Camp-

bel and Moore lodg’d several weeks at this house, againf

whom Mr. Thom was an evidence. C. P. D P. 22.

Dublin, Dec. 12. We hear from Cork, that there hath

lately appeared there an example, in imitation of those a-

bominable practices at Bristol and London; &c. Upon

which they had all fafpeéted houtes, and the ships at the

Key searched for strangers; when several idle fellows were

taken up and committed to goal. P. D P. 19. English

fellows. C. D F. I much fulpe the word Engiith

to be an interpolation: but if it be genuine, I think it

vould be the baft way for each Kingdom to call home their

oun Rogues.

Allapplication to the L. Justices for refpite having prov’d

in vain, this day Mr. Ric. Johvfton, fon to the late —

Johniton, Esq; and brother te Countellor Gab. Johniton of

this City, and Mr. John Porter, eldest fon of Mr. Alder-

man Porter, late L. Mayor, were executed on account of

the murder of Pat. Murphy#ewho was killed October 21.

(as is generally believed by a knife he had thrust haftily

into his fide pocket, which run into his thigh on his .ha-

flily fitting down in a low chair, at the Union on 'Tein-

ple-Bar, at the time he was pursued by these unhappy

young Gentlemen.) They both denied the facts for which

they were condemned, which. were for itabbing, and the

murther of the said Murphy: they owned they pursued

him, but denied that they did either stab.or wound him.

The breath was scarce out of their bodies, when 2 re-

prieve for4g days arrived fromhis Grace the D. of Dorset.--

The French Officers are still here; for Capt. Machamara,

with some of his brethren, were at anentertainment of Mr.

Linch’s, an eminent Merchant here, on fund. lait. 1 EF. 19-

Dublin, Dec. 15. Mets. Porter and Johnson were car-

ry'd from Newgate ina mourning coach, sooner in the day

than common, to avoid being publickly noted by the po-

pulace, &c. They said, they could not tell, whether either

of them gave Pat. Murphy his mortal wound: they begg’d

all young Gentlemen to take warning by them to shun ir,

regularities ard paflion. ‘They were {carcely dead when a

horseman arriv’d with a Paper, said to be a reprieve for

Mr. Porter for 40 days, tho’ some fay it was only a Letter

of recommendation to the Government to suspend execu.

tion, till application should be made to his Majesty. C-

P. DF. 32.

FOREIGN NEWS.

Tuurspnay, Dec. 17.

Veferday arrived the Mails due from France ard Flanders.

Moscow, Nov. 18. N. S. the Governor of Pultowa has

written to Court, that the new Bafhaw of Bender was ex-

pected with 6000 Janizaries; and that the Coflacks, as

well those under the Czarina’s pro*ection, as those under

the Grand Scignior’s, had received orders to take an oath

of fidelity to his Mighnef:, and to fend the arrears of their

ordinary tribute to Constantiropl-, upon pain of death :

whercupon 1 Courier has been diipatched to the Gover-

nor ef the Ukraine, with orders to hinder the Coflacks

under her Czarian Majesty s jurisdi€tion from obeying the

eommands of the Porte, and to assure them of sufficient

fepport, in cafe the Turks should pretend to force them

o take the said oath. C. In D P.18. and DJ. 19.

Vienna, Dec. 9. We are ailured, that the Imperial Mi

nifter at the Polish Court has prevailed on the King to

furnish the 6000 auxiliaries ppomifed heretofore; and that

a free passage for the 39,000 Russians thro’ Poland, is al-

ready granted by the King and the Republick. A few days

since a Courier arrived trom Constantinople, with advice

that the Imperial Resident there has had fresh assurances

given him trom the Porte, that they have no deliga to

{werve from the Treaty of Palfarowitz. D P.

Paris, Dec. 23. His Catholick Majesty has had the S.

Anthony’s fire in his leg, but not so as to hinder his gos

ing some times into his gardens, to take the diversion of

fishing; and at present he is intirely recovered. C. P.

D P. —— The Opera of Phaeton wis put eff til! the

21/i¢ because as the Rehearfal was performing thg 18th.

~

| M demoifelle Hermoni>, one of the principal Aétreffes, fell

thro’ a trap-door ofend tor the passage of a monster, and

biutied her head and her‘arms. C€.

Frroa yy, Dec. 18.

Gibralter, Nov. 16. N.S. Thetranf, orts arrived from

Fuglond remain in this Bay.. ‘Ths Spaniards, who have fe-

veral regiments in our neighbourhood, designed for the «x-

pedition to Ita'y, have hed the complifance to furnish our

garrison with treth Previfions,&c.. P.

Moscow, Nov. 21. The Czarina is determined to auge

ment her torces with at least 40,000 men, since the Triple

Alliance with the Courts of Vienna and Prufia, DP.

Hamburch, Dec. 15. We learn fom Stockholm, that the

8coo men tm French pay, are now cloathed, and reacy to

march at the first warning. Jdfd. |

Cologr, Dee. 17. Let ers from Swiixerland take notice,

that the King of Sardinia is not like to declare in haste for

the Avies of sevilley notwithstanding the advantageous pro-

poials that have teen made him Jia.

SATURDAY, Dee. 19.

Dantzick, Dec. 4. N.S. Some Letters fram Mofcove

advise, that &ce. C. This Article was published in D J.

Dec. 16. and from thence printea in our la@ Journal.

This Day arrio’d one Mail from Holland.

Viewna, Dec. 13 There isa report, that the King and

Republick of Poland have refused passage to the 30,000

Mutcovites. EP. $7. ‘

Seville, Dec. 1. Vhe Ambassadors and foreign Ministers

here have taken new leases of their houses at Madrid, which

were near expiring. Jd.

Madrid, Dec. 5. Our Letters from Cadiz of the 28th

palt fay, by way of P.S. that the Court had ordered the

delivery of the Sartaparilla, Vanilla, and other perishable

commodities by the Flotlla, W £.°

Monnay, Dee. 21.

Yesterday arrived the Mail due from¥rance.

Paris, dec-18. N.S. In the Bishop of Nifmes's Let-

ter to the Card. de Fleury, in vindication of his speech

to the King, is the following paragraph : Nay, Bou/d the

Faith (which God forbid!) be abclished in the bearte of

the Kings jfoould the King tura Heretick, or becomy

(4a suppositicn jo ediows, that it, is foocking

to make it) every Suwbjeé, every Bishop would neverthe-

less owe him an inviolable fidelity and chedience. Jp

is my religion, not the King’s, that is the true principle

and the jalid foundation of the cledience I owe bims

which will always make me acknowledee and revere in

bim a jovereign authority, entire and absolute, deperdent

or ly upon God, residing in bim alone, whereof be delegates

to all the members of his flate fa much, for fo ling atime,

and to such a degree, as be thinks fit, for the maintenance

of bis laws, which flow from bim alone, and for which

he is accountable to no power upon eath. C.

WEDNESDAY, Dec. 23,

Gibraltar, Nov. 28. For about cight or nine days patt

we have discover’d upwards of 500 men working on she

neck of land clote by the Limits; and we perceive they have

now form’d a Trench with Angles from jea to fea, athwart

the Idhmus in a line with their Guard Huts, wherein it is

judg’d ehey ure laying the foundation of a Wall. Also at

the weltermost end of the said Trench, facing the Bay,

they are ereéting a Fort, which will command that part of

our Bay. Their preparations give us great room to think,

they have a design to besiege this place again; for their

Barkes in great numbers are bringing daily necessiries to

the working men, yet do not hear of any Canion being

landed 5 and by our Merchants of Malaga we learn, forces

are order'd from all parts of Spiin into the Neighbourheod

of S. Rec, and their Working men increase. P.

Booxs and Pampnuets published in December.

The Generous Free Mafon, or the Constant Lady, Se.

A Tragi-Comic-Farcical Ballad Opera, in 3 Aéts. Pr. 1 5,

Three Essays in artificial Philosophy, universal Chemistry,

&c. by Pet. Shaw, M_ D.

The ufcfulness, truth, and excellency of the Christian

evelation, &c. against Christianity as old, &c. by James

Fofter.

The Lincoln’s- Inn Squire, or the Protestant turn’d Papist,

A new Ballad. Pr. 6d.

The hittorical Part of Mr. Tho. Hurdman’s distemper,

&c, published in Latin by Dr. Will. Greme, now put inte

English by if. Mafley, Apothecary, Pr. 6d.

A Letter to Dr. Waterland, containing some Remarkg

on his vindication of Scripture, in answer to Christianity

as old, &c. Pr. 1s.

A Treatise concerning eternal and immutable Morality :

by Ralph Cudworth.

‘The Christian Religion founded on Reason, or 2 Essays

on natural and revealed Religion. Pr. 2s. stitch’d. >

The Proceedings at the Sessions in the Old Bak

Dec. 4. -— 9, 1730, &c. Pr. 6d.

9 ose

C'1C10HS,

{liget,

ae

Me

wash

PR a, -

T .; i> > 5

A Hyman to the new Laureate 5 by a Native of IG \ 4

So '

>

2

te AO eee ie

a

}

'

!

the,

Sea Annuity 106 3 ate. “Gouth Sea Bonds 5

“ing. India Bonds 5° 17%. to18 s.

‘for the Opening

49 1 half.

The ‘Tragedy of Medea, &c. by Mr. Charles Johnson.

An Oration delivered at Evesham, Nov. 5: 1730. by

Wi Warkins, M. A. Rett. of Alkerton, &e.

“The Norfolk Squire and the Card: a new Ballad. Pr. 3d.

\

On Tuesday Stocks were,

South Sea 103 Za4the, 103 5 8ths, to 3 4ths. South

l.13s. Bank

144 1 4th. Bank Circulation 51. 12s. 6d. Million Bank

1073 4ths. India 191 1 8th, 1907 8ths, for the Open-

Royal Assurance 97,

. ondon Assurance 12 1 4th, to 3 8ths.

York Buildings 28 7 8ths, to zg for the Opening. African

Three per Cent. Annuity 97 3 4ths. English

opper 31. 13s. Welsh Copper 21. 18s,

The Course of Exchange.

Amsterdam 34 9 Madrid 42 1 half

Ditto at fight 34.6a 7 Bilboa 41 7 8ths

Rotterdam 3410 | Leghorn 51 4 4tha 3 8ths

Antwerp 35 6 Genoa 54 1 8thas 4th

Hamnburgh 33 344 Venice 48 7 8ths

Parisat fight 32 1 8th Lisbon 5s. 5d. 3 4ths.

Bourdeaux ditto 32 Porto 5s. 5 d. 3 8ths

Cadiz 42 1 4th Dublin 11 3 4ths.

Prices of Goods at Bear Key.

per Quarter per Quarter

Wheat ——26 to 28 Hog Peas —— 20 to 23

Rye —— 20 to 26 Boiling Peas— 22 to 26 9

Barley — 16 to 20 Pale Malt -— 26 to 28

Oats ~ 12 to 16 Brown Malt-—-22 to 24

Horse Beans 24 to 26 6 | Tares —— 20 to 21 6

Coals 30s. to 31 s. per Chaldron.

Hops 1729 — 26s. to 39s. per Hundred.

Hops 1730 — 40s. to 60s. per Hundred.

Rape Seed 101. to 101. 10s. per Laft.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

BOOKS jult Imporred, and to be had of N. Prevost and Company,

ver aganit Southampton-ftreer m che Strand.

ie ISTOIRE dela Mere & du Fils c’efta cire, de Marie de

I i iedicis, Femme du Grand Henry, & Mere de Louis XII

Roy ce Fiance; conierant i*Ecat des Affaires Politiques & Ecc'efia-

ftijue. arrivecs en Frauce depuis & y compris l’an- 1616. jufguesa

Ja in ve 161g. pay Fr. Eudes de Mezcray, Liftosiograjede France in

410, Amferdam, 1739

——be m mr Livreen avol. 12°.

N.B. Zhis Book never was published before. ;

2. Pawuie deja D éitno des Payens avec celle des Jesuites & de

la Buile Unipenicus, for l’Ecat de pure Nature, & fur les Forces Na-

toielles cu Libre arbitre de l’Homme. 8v0, Amp. 1731..

. Cl Alian Sophifta varia Historia, cum notis aniegris Conrad

Getneri, Joa sbcbelii, ‘Tan. Fabri, Joachiwi Kuhnu, Jacobi Peri-

gomi, & Tnarpretatione Latina Juitt Vulteii, innumeris in locis

eme data, curante Abrahamo Gronovio, qui& fuas adnota iones ad-

jects 2 vin. Quo. Luca. Bat. 13}. ;

gq. Ovvures ae Clement Marot, Valec de Chambre de Francois I.

Rey dv Fi. sce, revoes fur plofieurs MSS, && for plus de quarance

Edi sons; & avgmentees tant de diverles Poelies verisables, qne de

celies qu’ lui a fauficinent attribuees: avec les Ouvrages cde Jean

Maret Son Pere, ceux de Michel Maror Son Fils, & les Pieces du

different de Clemenr avec lL raneois Sagen: accompagnees c’une Pre

tace Hiflongue & d'Observaiions Critiques. en 4 vol. in 4:0. & en 6

vol. 120. a la Haye, 73'> name: =

g. Praxis Medica five Commentarium in Aphorifmos ze cognofcen-

dis & cura’ dis morbis au@ore Hermanno Bueihave, cum eyafdem

Hi o'ia Pliotarum, 6vol. 26. 1728.

6. Francilci Vurreani, Compendium Theologia — Dida&tice - --

Elenchtxa, ex Theckgtcoium noftrum Insticutiomibus The logicis

auéiucn & alluftracum. gro. mf. 731. ‘; .

9 Darilis Vink Amoen tates Plilolugico-Medice, im quibus Me-

dic:na a Servitute beratur. 8vo. Trajedi ad Rhenum, 17 30°

8. Aure Ginn. Celli de Medicina Libri oéto brevioribus Rob. Con-

Maniini, 11 Calauboni, aliorumque Scho'iis ac Locis parullelis illu-

ftrat: Cura & Swud.o Th. J. ab Almeloveen., Editio uluma prioribus

multo avéticr & emends io. 2 vol. Svo. Lagd, Bat. 1730.

9. Orbis Sace: & Protanus illuftracus. Pars primain qua Di ecefeon,

Provincia: um & Mewopoleon, tom Ecclefiaftica: um, tum(Civilium biftr-

butio, ad norm.n veter's Nontw Impertt Romani expacatur, tn

reliquis finguia Mundi Paress Europ, fia, Africa, Ameria, ¢a-

rumgue Provinciz, Mecropoles, 8 Urbes describuowr: Opus Eccle-

fattice, & proane Hiftyra, nec non Geographix studiolis apprime

utile © Aucwore P. Francifce Orlandio, Ordints Piadicatorum, tol. Filo-

j 8.

~— Eaftachii Manfredii Bonon. Scientiarum instituii Allronomi

de Ancus inerrantium Stellarum Abcrraionibus, 410. Bononia 1729

11. Numifmata area feleGiorg maximi Modus e Muieo Piiane

olim Corrario. Venetiis. Jo Bap. Albricum. Grand ii tol.

ta. Retom fealicarum Scriptures @ Ant. Maratorius Tome 16. qui

} fair le 18 v0.

N. B. The Catalogue of all the Pieces contained in this cmvions Colle-

Gion ave to be foxndan the following ‘Book, Intitied

Historra Literaria, Or, an Exaét ‘and Early Account of the most

valuable Books published in the several Parts o} Europe. With a Ca

| galogue of new Books imperted every Month.

Fier feris at apes in Saltcbws omnia libant,

Onmia nos itidem Lucret.

Tome 1. with a compleat Index, in 8vo, Lendom, 1730. And also

every Number separate.

A New iif ry ut England in English and French for the Use ot

Schools by Question and Answer, Excuaéed trom Mr. de Repin

} Theyras, Lave

The Country Spy, ora Ramble thro’ London, &c. ’

This Day is pubiiher,

(Price 28. 6d. ° x

= 2 E Yaere of the Towx: Or, a Guide to al) Publick Diver-

Ons, Vize

1, Ot Malick, Overas, and Plays. Their Original, Progress, and

Improvement, and che Stage-Entertai ment fully vindicated trom the

Exceptions of old Pryn, the Rev. Mr. Collier, Mr. Beaford and Mr.

Liw.

‘Il. Of Poetry, Sacred ard Profane, A Proje& tor introdveing

Sciipiure-stortes upon our Stage, and a&ting them on Sundays and

Holy-days after Divine Service, as as customary in most police Parts

Oi Lurupe.

Ill. Of Dancing, Religious and Diamatical. Refle&ions on this

Exercise, Publick and Piivate, wich the learned Bishop Poter’s Sen-

timents theréon.

iV. Of the Mimes, Pantomimes and Choruffes of the Antients ;

and of the Imitation of them in our modera Entertainments after

Piays. :

v. Ot Andienc-s, at our Theatric 4 Representations, their due Be-

havivurys and of Car-Calis and other indecent Practices, concluding

with Remarks on our Pretenders to Criticism.

VI. Ot Masquerades; Ecclettattical, Political, Civil and Military:

Their Antiquity, Use and Abuse. Also of Ridotwos, Assemblies and

Henley’s Oratory .

, VIL. Ot the Athletic Spores of the Antients: Theit Circus com-

pared with our Bear Garden, and ther Gladiators with our Prize-

Figh:ers. Ot Cockefighting, Puppet-shews, Moun-ebanks, aud

Auctions.

Printed’ and Sold by the Booksellers of London and Westminster

This Day is published,

Treatise concerning eternal and immutable Morality.

By RALPH CUDWORTH, D. D. formerly

Mitter of Christ’s Cellege in Cambridge, Author of the

True intellectual System of the Universe.

WithaPRE rACE by the Right Reverend Fathey in

God, Edward Lord Bishop of Durham. 7

Printed tor James and John Knapton, at the Crown in St

Paul’s Church-Yard.

This Day is published, '

4 Y MN to tic New Laureat. By a Native of Grub-

treet.

vai uturdij

Bifo cafe igoodo Efovi pao A Sotvy

afie da: Upancakeo,

Printed for L.G. and Sold by A. Dodd, at the Peacock

without Temple Bar; and E, Nutt, atthe Royal Exchange.

(Price 6 J.)

: Lately JPubtithes,

Beamtifully printed from the 2 Vols.in 4to with improvements, on a fine,

writing Paper, in two Poket Vols. im Svo. Price Six Shillings

bound.

POEMS by Atran Ramsay.

Let them cen{ure what care I,

The herd of Criticks I defy:

No, no, the Fair, the Gav, the Yonng

Govern the numbers ef my Song:

All that they approve is (weet,

And ail is jenfe that they repeat.

Prior from Anacreon.

Printed for J. Clark in Duck.!ane; Weaver Bickerton without

Temple-Barr 5 A. Millar againt St. Clement's Church in the Scrand ;

F. Cogan at the Middle Tempie-gate, Fleet-street; R. Willock in

—— and S.Valmer and J. Hugyon'en, Printers in Bartho!omew-

C Jote,

This Day is Publishver,

In Two Volumes in 8vo3 the Firff on the Solids, and the Seeond

on the Fluids,

AN Anatomical and Mechanical Essay on the whole ANI-

/X MAL OECONOMY in one View; wherein is shewn

the most wonde-ful Condnét of Nature in all the Phenom:na

attendinz humane Bodics: Containing anew Theory o: Ani-

mals, an} fully explaining the my fter-ous Do&. ins ot Ani-

malcula in Semine Masculino; with the true Nature and Mode

of Gen rat on, Conception and Nutiiion of the Fetus, The

fe of the Inteffinum Cecume Ot the Breafsin Men. The

Nature, cause and Growth of the Hair, and why diferent

in diffe ent Parcs of the Body 3 witha M chanical Account

of Nutrition how pcerform’d -n an Animal Kody. Of Pain,

Ploafire; and many such ike Curiosities; after avery <acy,

Plain atid philoophical Manner. Nee flary for al! Love:s of

Knowledge, part‘cular!v young Students in Anatomy, Pi:y-

sick, and Surgery, Wath an Alphabetica: Catalogue of Au-

thors Names referred to on veral Occasions in this Treatise,

By J. COOK, Student in Physick, and late of the College

in Fdinburgh,

Printed for WW’. Afeadows, at the Angel in Cornhill.

“LONDON: Printed by A. Moore, for Ca

On TUennelVap Vert Mill he publishen, Price gd.

THE Hutory of Kxecuttons. No. VIL. (whch with a Table of

Contents, compleats @ Years Sett) being a tull Account of the

rt Street Robbers, &c. executed at ‘i yburn, Dec. 23, 1739. Toge-

ther with the dying Centeffions of 3 Criminals execuied at Leicester,

viz. Mary Marifon, for murdering her Baflard Child, William Par-

rridge, for robbing a Scotchman, and John Harrison, a boody

Ajjathn tor the murder of Mr. Warner, Gardiner to Ambrose

Philips, Efq3 to which Mr. Warner’s Son hird him on promise ofa

large Reward, and his Sifter in marsiage, but atterwards impeach’d

him, and turn’d Evidence agaipit him. An impartial Account of

the Behaviour and dying Words of Joseph Askwith, Richard and

john Freeman, Bayliffs, who were executed ac York Dec. 19. 730.

for barbarously wounding and robbing Mr. Mat hew Wilks, allo of

M:. Johofon and Mr. Porter, executed the 12th Instant at Dublin

tor murther,

To which is added,

An Alphabetical LIST of all the Persons indi&ted at the Old Bai-

ley, in the Year 1730, shewing the Judgment passed on each, and

serving asan Index tor the Sessions-Books tor the said Year. Prin.

ted by R. N. and fold by the Booksellers in Town and County.

eo = eee

ptain GuLLivEer, near the Temple, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in: A3

alio at the Rainbow Coffee-Hou/e in Cornhill, and fokn’s Coffee-Hou/? in Sheer-Lane, near T, emple-Bar. [Price Two Pence.]}

. AKEN up some Time last Week 4 Silver-inited

T The Owner, describing the Marks, the Time tt

when azid where the fame was loft, may have it again, at Wilf;

Coffee-house in Bell-favage Yard, near Ludzate, upon Pav.

ment of the Charge ot Advertising. y

This Day is published,

: Th SECOND EDITION

(With the Approbation cf Mr. Pecomrs Matter of the Opera at

aud Mr. L’ Abee, Court Master to the present Royal Fainil ) ot

THe Dancing Masren: Or, The whole Arc and Mystery of

DancineG explain’¢ 5; and the Manner of performing all Sie 5

in Bali-Dancing, made short and easy. In two Parts, P

_ The first, Treating of the proper Pofitiuns and different Atri des

tor Men and Women, trom which all the Steps are taken and Per.

form’d 5 adorn’d wi.b init: ucrive figures 5 aid a Dfcripsonof the Ming.

et Figore, shewing the beautitul Turns ot the Bocy in that Dance

also, the Manner how Men and Women ought to walk grace

with a genteel Behaviour upon all Occasions; likewises the Cere

nial 5 as used at the King’s Great Ball; andof behaving genteelly a

gulated Balis.

The Second, Of the Use and agreeable Me:ivns of the Arms and

Legs, in raking their proper Movement, and forming che Contra;

with Figures tor their Explanation, in sixty Draughts, done trom the

Lite, and engraved on Copper Plates. This Work will be very ufejuj

to all Gentleman and Ladies who take Delight in this Exercise, and

to those which keep Boaiding Schools, for this will give their Scho.

lars a just Notion of Address, a good Carriage, and genteel Behaviour,

Do: e trom the French of Monfieur Rameau, by T. Efiex, Daucing-

Master,

Sold by hirn, at his House in Rood-Lane, Fenchurch: street; and

J- Brotherton, atthe Bible, next the.Fleece Tavern, in Cornh |!; and

at most Booksellers and Musick-Shops in Town. °

Paris,

> ag

uily

Mo-

Cre.

uk publisher,

The Third Edition of

HE SPELLING DICTIONARY: Or, a Colle&ion of all the

common Words made use of in the English Tongue, caretuly

compared with the oripinal Languages trom whence they are derived,

and marked as they aie co be pronounced. By T. Dycue Price

1s. 6d. Suld by RK. Ware, at the Bible and Sun in Warwick-Lane,

at Amen Corner.

Also may be had at the same Place,

1. The large House Bibles folio with the fix Maps of sacred Geo-

graphy, and a biief Concordance for the mvre ealy hnding out of

the Places therein contained. By J.Downame, B. D.

Bound in Calf Learher il, 6s. per Book

And with M, Scurt’s Cuts at 21. 5s. Ditto

On a fine Paper with Cuts 31. 38. Ditto

2. A Defctiption of 300 Animals, viz. Beasts, Birds, Fithes, Ser-

penrs and bniects, Wich a particular Account of the Whale-fishery,

Excracted out of the best Authors, and adapted to the Use of all Ca-

pacities, especially to allure Children to read. Hluftrated with Cop-

per Plates, whereon is curiously engraven, every Beast, Bird, Fith,

Serpent and Infe&, describ’d in the whole Book, price 2s. 6d.

3- impartial Churchman: Or, a fair and candid Representation of

the Excellency and Beauty of the Church of England, Together

with an earneit and affectionate Adarets co the Proveftant Diffeniers,

By Robert Warren, D.D. Price 3s. 6d.

4: A Treatise of Archite&ure, with Remarks and Observations by

that excellent Master thereof SEBASTIAN LE CLERC, Koc. of the

Empire, Detigner and Engraver of che Cabmmet co the lite French

King, and Member ot the Academy of Arrs and Sciences. Necefla-

ry for young People who would apply to that noble Art. Engraved

on 181 Copper Plates, By John Sturm Translated by Mr, Chambers,

Price 158.

s- Tradetman’s Guide, Containing a Lift of ail the Stage Coaches

and Carriers; with an Account of ail the Faivs and Market Towns

in England. Price 1s.

Ghis Day is Pubiiy’d,

Printed for J. BROTHERTON at the Bible next the Fleece Tavern

in Cornhill.

HE Bate of the Poets; an Heroick Poem, in two Canto’s,

Price one Shillirg.

Now Bavius take the Poppy from thy Brow,

And place it bere; here all ye Heroes bor.

This, this is he, foretold in ancient Rkimes,

Th Augustus born to bring Satnrnian Times ;

Beneath his Reign shall Cibber wear the Bays,

And yet preside Lord Chancellor of Plays. Dunciad.

N.B. Where may be had, The Bartle of the Sexes. Pig and Afaftif:

Down Hall; a Poem, and Mofshas and Bion.

The belt Warer in the Wortp,

So called by those who have experienced ic to be fu, for the Ircn,

or any Icching Humours.

T hath been taken inwardly tor the Kine’s-Evin, kc is good

co cure fore Eyes, or any other Sores, Ulcers, or Fiftula’s; it has

preserved several from having their Limbs cur off, when all other

means have tailed.

The Price on the Bottle, One Shilling and Six Peace.

It is co be fold at My. Gomdge’s, at the Castle in Westminster-Hall;

Mr. Radferd’s Toy: Shop» atthe Roje and Crown over-against Sc. Cle-

ment’s Chutch-Yard in the Strand, near Arunde!-Street End> and

at Mrs. Raw’s at the North-Entcance of the Royal-Exchange, over-

azainft Bartholomew-Lane.

For the Benefit of those Persons who are affliéted with the

DROPSY,

Elizabeth Knell, who lives next Door to the Baker and

eg in Middle-Street, Cloth-Fair, near Weit-Smith-

ield,

TILL continues ta perform great Cures in the fad

Dittemper, on both Sexes, and all Ages.

N. B. An Account may be had of several Cures at the

Place aforesaid.


