~The Grub-street Journal. Sse

‘ob Thursday, YLCEMBER 17, 1730, i

short is the date alafs! of modern rhimes,

{nd tis but just lo let 9om Live betimes.

Pore’s Eilay on Criticism.

Tho’ the following Letter would, no doubt, have been

more acceptable to the Public about 4 mo ths ago 3

et it was thought proper to publish it, to shew our

readine’s to do some thing to the advantage of any

Gentleman, who may have, either undeservedly in

himself, or undefignedly in us, been represented in a

disadvantageous manner in any of these Memoirs. The

second Letter is likewise published on the fame account.

Mr. Bavius, Nov. 25, 1730.

S you give us in your 25th Fourna/ the

fullest account of the Cambridge Com-

mencement, and have lately revived some

discourse about the Author of the Music

Speech 5 the following Letter, written by

a Gentleman in London to his friend

in the Country, upon that subject, may

not be unacceptable now to some of your Reauers.

Dear Sir,

Fter my return from the Commencement at Cambridge,

Duid prius dicam folitis Parentis laudibus ? I beg

leave, however, to pais over the Djiputations, as too phi-

lofophical an entertainment to a Gentleman of your talte 5

who, after paying two or three years attendarce on a

Mistress, mult have found out a better way of reasoning

than by fyllogism, at leatt

the weakness of it.

The fair Sex, let me tell you, upon this public occasion,

detach’d a numerous body to survey the ferce of reason

in its greatelt glory. ‘The fubitance, I suppose, of their

report is, that we {pe d years in learning what nature

suggests to them, only to deny the AZixor. -- Well, Diipu-

tations apart, the diversion and glory of the Cominence

ment, were the Ladies Company and the Music Speech.

The latter, tho’ heard with the most univerial applaute,

has, since the publication, lain under some imputation of

obicurity. The ingenious Febwian, as well as your Lady,

has dwelt too much, perhaps, in Barbara cel/arent: but

from the beauties obvious to every eye, we may guess a

those that lie concealed from us. I shall readily com-

municate what I-can discover in the one, wi:shout expect-

n

the othis i

’

ing the like favour return'd in Pr.

Phe Poet begins with an address to the Ladies, tells

them, That this day’s representation shews them what an

awkward creature a Gremial Doct:

gr is3 who, being bred

up in the bofom of the University. is denied the pri-

vilege of taking his degree before the time prescribed by

flatute. Having spent the fire of life in smoke and ob

icurity, he endeavours, at last, to rekindle it in matri-

mony, when grey hairs, like cinbers, shew its approach

Ing decay.

As for the Ov/ird Gentlemen, it is not f 1

who have found cut the way of rec

HyMeEn, as ealily as buttery books

ee

creel x,

Vit tiem 5

Spee is - ‘ol

mchuns CLATO with

ith a mulk fcore.

Upon this open confession of our unpolitencfs, the La-

dies will conceive but a diiadvantageous opinion of us

Phofe that came hither in hopes of flattery, I fee unealy

now, for being dilappointed of it; and, in one moment’s

pallion, forget all the philosophy this morning had taught

|

© 4774} > their | ca > |} ue Vinny +}

them; jutt a: their flomachs throw back wholiome phy-

fic, for want of jugar after it.

To these [ hun bly offer the purpled Gentlemen of 7

nity, to whom J gratefully acknowledve all the thanks are

que, if the charaéte r, I have hitherto drawn of the Un

rartitry tn re, . hee eatea'« ae

Veriity In penherai, 1§ rot too {iridtly true £ iis d elie

dancing race, will jufficiently attone for t muthness et

a eae EES, Sg ai y ,

the reit Of u 3 { tT Ene re us hneis oF tae } » them

lancholy of the Fe/vit, the politics of C’aeHal), the

. 9 é : a } ye s 4:@° 6G ‘ ed \

n 1 . > . a +} ! , ‘

dolence ol if Net, and tne €ieTvn il Wi }: é Ka 3 ’

for the ill-nature of Sidney and Aucens, who voted avain

AA. AS y 2} a ie - cone -

the Viuilc A&, ana Cie | waidre OF thi sutNUul Allen

He then proceeds with the picture of the fleck Gent

1 : ° , : . ) ’ Pa

men he before mentioned, deicridbes the moet rphoh» ot

7m na ie *) .; vs .

their boafied Library into a masquerading house. He lees

} . ys

The solemn wax in gild. Ms

- G4 rere i rik VW RAITL

ag oie ae i -

peta ie you Mull : WV, ] oi ] i 4 iepe,

vif iii yr 4! ¢ ! te } } f

10 Walking . ne veIWee : the 'f I > UY a

false tep fe]] Deeinie Mal ! }; a

q AXep Teil throu, Rn, Up to the eJDows, » Was toun {

. on | ae . . t

aNeung, lilac a pair Ol wrceches al a hai WUIQUIY. 4

are an unhappy instance of

—s

en er ee ee

A i A OO i ED EET

ee, cme ee

is not the identical Wormivs mentioned in the Dunciad,

tho’ of the fame fscé, the fame original. A Fobstan,

I remember, said, he was a man of great penetration, Who

had found a p2/faye in the Library, which Dr. BenrLey

himself had never bit wp-z.

Theenext Paragraph, 1 must own, I don’t fully un

stand. By the handjome Envoy, a pretty youth of 7ri-

nity, they fay, is hinted at, who was design’d for En-

voy 3 but his patrons finding him capable of counting

twenty, got hima place in the Treasury, and fo from a

mode'n Scholar raised him to a Man of fewre literally.

In describing the learned productions, which these Gen-

tlemen will leave to poiterity, he tells us,

The wel! [pelt page, perbaps, with rapture d

Ox Pepys gilded foew, or Woopwarn’s fhel’s.

der-

,

? af

we tis

The former of these lately gave to Maedu'en Coll. library

a colleétion of books well letter’d --- on the outside, with

silk head-bands and fillets, I may fay, permiffu /uperiorum,

fit for any Queen. Dr. Wocpwarp’s Foilils, lately bought

by the University, not unknown to the centre of the

earth, perhaps, to the dutipedes. ‘Vo proceed with more

contents,

Even Chiva Nymphs shall live in fonret there,

Or Potty Peacuum ferol?’d to Sturbridge Fa/r.

By China Nymphs are only meant foine Ladies that traf-

sick’d in that brittle Ware lalt Sturdridze Fair time. The

Trinitonians could discern in them more than

common, and find out a Potty Peacuum under any

covering.

|

charms

Who first projeted Casar’s cavalcade;

Whe ford of planting Opera flatutes here,

truck out the modifp thought of tick the fair.

By Ce/ars cavalcade the Trinity triumph is referr’d

to, when Dr. 3. enter’d the College with more than usual

pomp, and was receiv’d in it with far, far more than

usual joy. Reason good: he had given out, you mutt

know, that he came to take his leave of them. See

the Ballad.

The method of admitting the Lad

house at this Comme:

in Ce

}

yy

9)

fine

pele

MAU

ies into the Senate

ment, being debated before hand

vocation, some wife Head propoted they should be

oa

iCe

} allow’d Tickets. ‘The consequence would have been, that

the Fellow-Commoners would have fill’d the galleries with

Cambridge toafts, and placd them next to their own

Mammias or Sifters.

As the Poet began with the Defer, fo he concludes

’

From this glo-

tant Living, fir’d at

«

ae eee MM itp

COM PMICKCLHG C/ee

is huri ie i away to his d

once with Ve and amoition; the one from the noble

. { — .) rn i~ 1. es > ” ~ }

t eft or {@ many icariet Dodlors, the other trom the cap-

‘ : » I * . a

tivaung ks Of our southern Beautie rom these avi

' -_ Linwtslt « ay) 4 —— et

im se ters }] ii tO Gulu : wl ] Or ¢ » Pere

“ . } . .Y .

“—s Vilae iti 4 i! Cs ikiS | rif} a ~ \ icClul eC OF Pu

LT pew Elise ree + *y } } .

SLARRY Lil ae & Ixy \ i \ i v ‘ ! V5 fo

. , } !

r t = 1X ps y i t } ? 4 ® ] th Hene-

D Ne PI0r /eMalarsy WO Ci t reading than

: vr + 4 ae + CV :; }

\ i } PP. Geen £ Zid LAL L d > © Taal lti love > a qd

1 . ’ ° .

th 12 calls torth greater e n ever his fun-

a { ee a

aem 1 > S Pair <2 , o¢Wware or counte!

r , , . ‘

r fhei i is now funk much below Par.

heh , ]

silts lets; no more by Phwhys and Cas

,4 , ’ .

Lhe Alvie ‘ Nts uy; are become mere

5 crs, y ft “| e 4iley.

FS . *

I , u ‘ TL f

. ‘ by Lombard firect.

| 1 Ve Its, XC

P< tT) 4 = . > of

r.S. JT should have vd, that the Poet has given

** ’ 1 . . .

ip the duputed cla rity to Oxford, tho’ SIGE

. : —" ! . oo

ae | \ vy seh Cmoy 1th iti V> ne ot your

> 1» . ! o} e .

iN Si) Ctor Vi OF th >] he better plea

I ¢ t; but can’t h » procucs , passage or two

from a late Author, Niiat’ bh written in defence of the

Antiquity of O a -% 1 finell fo modern, that I can

oo x " eee ) f

bear them no more than a Soph can a Fresheman. P.136.

Avere tanien fert, auod CaMpENUs ttum exerrplar voca

ret ¢ P.523, 134. SIGERERTI CanraBRi VE Hi-

f} f tra ceris habeantur, guam viri literati

iia 3 "a | fm) Ptia faciunt, fturbant, mm

Ay, r crs tore ool, fh Fy ode ,

} 22 VN j tGEEHD ANjA GUVLiAN Al, GAIN

: ‘. |) . wa

A3 ~ swe We } t é alice Like +Oee€ J P Li pe cof > >>.

fitte/} ma

SiR

yo were pleased in four last Journal, No. 49. to

think, That if a Piece be written well in genenal,

"tis too severe ta expose a few particular mistakes : This

is, indeed, to think like a generous and good-natur’d many

who desires to receive both pleasure and profit from aso

cilm. And I could have with’d, for your fake, that you

had instill’d this principle into a Kinfman of yours, Sim-

pte Simon by name, before he had attack’d a late per-

formance; Which (setting aside the reception it has meg

with, sufficient to determine its chara@er) must be own’d

to have its beauties; yes, and, (all Circumstances confi-

der’d, as you fay) beauties enough, to over-balance the

blemishes, both real and imaginary. ;

I meanthe Verses that bear the name of StepHen Duck #

which, tho’ undoubtedly his own in the main; yet being

printed without his aflent or approbation, cannot be eall’d

genuine, or expected to be correct. Which may serve as an

an{wer to all the present objections: especially those of your

Kinfinan, who, before he had pretended to criticise, ought

in point of good manners, to have been fure of the very

words and expressions of the Author, and not have carp’d

at sale Prints, Interpolations, &c. wherewith almost every

Page abounds: p.8. Life for Lips; p. 13. Lowing for Low-

rings p. 30. O then for But then; p 25. affright for afc?

p. 7. no lafing, &e. read Oar /weete/t joys are mixt with

bitter coce. Many more I could point out, would it not

anticipite the fatistaétion, Iam persuaded you will one day

have trom a genuine and correct copy.

But how ridiculous is it to tell Mr Duck of Expletives,

Ellipfes, Pleonasms, &c! ‘Terms and Figures, as unknown

to him, as the Neewtonian Phi/ojophy 3 tho’ he may be fen-

fible of any the like disorder of Language, and would not

venture on it without a Precedent: For, I believe, I could

produce some of thete Peccadillo’s againflt Grammar from

the bett Writers of the Age: but I detpife the {narling fa-

tistaétion of finding faults, and can ealily pardon thoie mi-

stakes, Which, as the greatelt Criric among the Romans obs

serves, Negligerce may let flip, or against which our Na-

ture is not juficient/y guarded.

Dee. tA, 1730.

yy

-

Yours, L.M.

Some of our Readers having complained, that we frees

quently insert in our Fourrals Quot. in Latin, without

any translation, and particularly in our lait; it was thought

proper, to give here Mr. Eacuarp’s tranflition of the pat

fage in Terence, Which ought to lave been subjvin’d to

the

tt

lol

padlage icielf.

Dem. Yiu fee, Gevtlemen, bow the cafe Rands.

haa [ bef to ao ? Your advice, yi ir. (, hye ‘lor

I think Mr. Cratine’s the

ft 2. 6 : .

JS Pear first, f you please.

Vivhat

97.4

bilie?/

Hea. Meaning me Sir

Dem. Cz

Cra

“Ut On the Ny Mr. atiNe.

Whol, Sir? Dem. Yos, you,

Sir.

Cra. I'd willingly advise you for the bef: I am of opie

nian, S that what your Son did in your absence, frould,

invicght and realor, be null and void, ipso facto; and the

I I") j »f/ 7rr 9? °

até é (¢ + ee

for you, Mr. Hevio.

I ! leve

’

iR@ as he thoucht by Auts

veaey

Mr. Cc GQLInXE

» if

as the javinz is. So many Men, {fo many Minds, every oné

as they like. Inmy opi ion, what the Law bas once de-

i ind, Mouwdrt be cancell’d, and ’tewowd bea Jjéa dal

to offer at such a thine.

Dem. Now fa ion, Mr. Crito.

.; . . ,. . = r

Crir. 7 acfire time to consider omt; tis @ weigorly

affair. F

Hea. Ha’ye ary further occasion

Dim. You've made rare work ont, ifaith.

re ck now than ever.

a sili ho»

: VON) 0} j

for our ad-ige?

An Errcram on the late

te Mrs. O_priretp

=

: > ' ‘ff. - jim omaee

Ince Farce, and tongueleis Part mos Can CHIT,

. } 2 58 ’ . ’ e “ 9

V2 And Del/alotls each Coxco un Warm 3

c e @rmiine — n Lo ase ~~

Di trifling $2 Zz r can t ral cs

,

! as lime {5} (); bl LD. , Oo baile ists

rv i’ = a }

AO Ws IMUiL ‘ ‘ , is 2

]

Orpr b, Whole er S I t yes

ai it The iif, het if } ? 3 4 !

H t _ ‘ ’ y +; Tes t

buat i rltars, ine pone» anunD lit Is GUMMY:

; ’ y é ,

} r asl és ij‘ -s and ead Z , "HER

Pusre Gaus.

LON D O N.

Tuurspvay, Dec. to.

Laft night the Setiions ended ar the Old Bailey, when

the 17 following Malctaétors fout 16 meationed] recei-

ved ientence of death, viz. A!. White, Fran. Saunders,

John \ ines, alias Minfham, alias Mitchell, Rob Tyler,

Constance Buckle. Will. Brabyn, Jam. Hall, Will. Holland,

Pet. Norivar, John Smith, John Barnet, Ric. Smith, Wil.

Whitford, all 13 for the Highway; Tho. Manieil. for

horse-stealing; Mary Smith, for privately stealing 5 s. from

the person of one Delaport, and Joshua Cornwall, for

Burglary, &c. C. &c. ——— 3 were burnt in the hand, 6

o dered tobe whipt, and between 4@ and 50 for tran{pore

tation. DF. —---- There is great disagreement Letcvixt

my Boethren in this article, which it would be too tedious

to mention: but mty learned Brother the Wiftoriographer

ot Newvote will joon give the Public am exaét account of

these" eminent perfors.

Laft week dies of the smallepox, at his feat in War-

wickshire, Sir John Huband, Bar. aged atout 17. D. P.

SF. WE. Thetitleisextin&®. LE. Hubbard. EP.

Bristol, Dec. 7. Two of Mr. Robin’s men, who left

his woik about a fortnight ago, being taken up at the

Devizes tor horse-stealing, have {wore, that another man

of Robin's was the person that fet fire to Mr. Packer’s

houte; the fellow was taken up this morning. C.

On wednesday a reprieve was fent to Ireland tor Mr.

Porter and Mr. Johnston, &e Jbid. The DP. of fat.

12. favs the reprieve was tor Mr. Porter,

Two of the Knight-Ma:fhals men at a time are com-

manded to attend her Majesty, when fhe walks abroad ;

for which additional duty, the r Salaries are advanced from

18 to 38). per ann. cach. D F.

The Rey. Dr. Symonds, Dean of Battle, in Sussex, a

Benctice of particular privileges, is lately dead, after

having enjoyed it 42 years. That, and the living of Ew-

harit an -exed, which i akes it a yood Deanery, are in the

gitt of Sir Tho. We' fler, of CopteHall in Essex, Bar P.

EP. WE. LE.—~—T/ am afured, that the late Dean

was wo Doctors and that Ewhurit is not annexed to the

Deanery. ;

Mr. Ric. Young, of Midhurst in Sussex, is appointed

by the R. H. the EF. of Herttord, Custos Rotulorum of

that County, Clerk of the Peace tor Suffolk, in the room

of Mr. Shepherd, deceaftd. LE. -—— dt Joould have been

for Sussex.

This week there was brought to the King’s Meufe at

Charing cro.s,from the East-Indies, z large birds called Caf-

fawars, a !lar{pank, and a bird called a Van Vavo; the last

reckoned worth soo]. such as hath not been fcen before

in these parts. bid.

The Rev. Dr. Walker, Chaplain to the Archbishop of

Canterbury, Dean of Bockin in Effey, Reétor ot Much

Easton in the same County, Archdeacon of Hereford’, and

Chancellor ot S. David’s, is mace Reétor of S. Mary °1-

dermary, London.—-— My Brother the LE bas put this

article in Italic, as containing some thing extraordinary:

but, I think, it bas not been unusual to distinguifo Per-

fons of great parts or earnivg, elsecially if greatly related,

dy Piurslitics in Church and State.

Frivay, Dee. 11.

We hear the Am! aflidor trom the Dey of Algiers is to

be allowed, by his Mayetly. col. personth, and other ex-

pences, during his flay. (.

Wedn. laff Hugh Cathere!, Hugh Davies, and Will. Ae

bell, lute Collectors of the Westminster Turnpike, were

convicted be'ore Sir Tho. Crofle, Bar, &c. at a {pecial Sc!e

fion at the Veftiy Roonyof Sr. Margaret’s Westminster,

of great ond notorious frauds and conccalments, amounting

to 5 0: 600'. a year; and were thereupon committed to

Newgate, without bail or main-prize, ‘a) they should ren-

der a true and full account. D Thiece of the Co'-

leétors of the Chelsea Turnpike, who had tormerly been

con. mitted to Newgate tor fr uds, and discharged without

content of the Commissioners. C.

His Majesty has becn pleased to order a Patent to pass

the proper seals, for the better and more effectual ex-

tracting by certain ingredients prepared for that purpose, of

silver tron, lead ore, far beyond the method now in ufe.

D7J.—- Tf this new method prove effectual, i¢ ewil! be

of ergat advantage to the nation, in which thee is at

present ava? quantity of \caden ore.

Yesterday, in the evening, <t the great door in Lincolns-

Inn-Fields Play-house, one of the private Centinels <,uare

reil’d with Tho. Day, a Chairman, about setting his chair

in the passage; and as Day and his partner were removing

their chair, he follow’d him, and stabb’d him thro’ the

back with his bayonet, of which wound he died inabout

an hour. ‘The Centine) was cormitted to Newgate. dia

Stabbed him several inches in the belly. P. The C. of

fat. 12. /ays, he is not dead: dut the EP. 8 J. and LE.

repeat the account above.

L.@ oht the King and Queen, bis R. Highnef:, &c.

were at the Theatre-Royal in Drury-lane, to tee the Play

et the Fatal Marrisge, and the Mafgue of Cephalus, &c.

with the new Pantomime, call’d, Harlequin Grand-Volgi :

they seem’d highly pleas’d with the Entertainment, which

has gain’d unive:{ | applause: the farther performance ot

it is deferred for jome time, on account of the new Tra-

gedy ot Medxa. D P. —— I fear it will be necefary to

join Harlequin to Medza, te gain it universa applaute.

SaturpayY, Dec. 12.

Cn Thursday morning dy'd, after a tedious indisposition,

at his house at Stamford Rivers in Essex, the Hon. Sir

Jotn Ayloffe, Bart. and is succeeded by Jof. Aylofte of

Lincoln’s-Inn, E{q; Barrister atlaw. C. DP. ‘The rev.

Sir John Aylofie Bar, Reé. of Stanford Rivers. Sir Jo-

feph is Grandson of Sir William the first Baronet of the fae

mily. .Z E£.

The depositions taken in Wilthhire, relating to the per-

fon now in fafe custody for burnin, Mr. Packer’s houte

at Bristol, having been transmitted hither to one of his

Majesty’s Principal Secretaries of State, we hear that a

{pecial Commission will be forthwith {ene down to Bristol,

for trying that heinous offender and his accomplices. D P.

On faturday a caul2 was heard by the L. Chancellor, bej

tween Brig. Gen. Stuart, and the Executors of the late Gen.

Stuart, when his Lordship after a hearing of «1 houfs, de-

creed the said Briy. upwards of 12,221. to be paid to

hin by the said Executors. P.

A servant of a Gent. of considerable rank and figure in

Yorkshire, having retufed to obey his commands, and the

Gent. reprimanding him severely, his servant had the im-

pudence to draw a poker out of the fire, and make a

thrust at his master, which he avoided, and the servant re-

peating his atter pt, the master drew his {word, and kill’d

him upon the fpor, The Coroner’s inquest brought in

their Verdict fe defendendo. P.

We hear that 2 Indians are coming over from South Ca-

rolina, one of them said to be the King of the Yamatees.

This nation formerly consisted of 300 men, and were al-

ways enemies to the English ever since the Indian war

1715, being fet on by the Spaniards at S.Augufine. By

continual skirmishes they have teen gradually fo leffen’d,

that about a year ayo they wee reduced to 12 men.

Their lands, which are some of the most fertile in C.ro

lina, were given many years ago to the English by the

Cherrokees, after they had con_ucred the Yamafee nation.

D F.

Yesterday one Honner, a woman, was apprehended 1t

Camberwell in Surrey, on suspicion of fending threatning

letters to divers persons, and committed to the County

Goal. Ldid. In the C. of mond. 14.

Thursd. night a Watchman belonging to S. James’s

house, was robb’d in King-flreet, Weftm. by 2 footepads,

who took from him about 13 shillings in silver, aad some

half-pence, and beat him in a barbarous manner. E P. ----

I suppose they beat him, for baving fo little money in bis

poctet, and yet pretending to de a Watchman belonging to

S.James’s houte.

We hear that an experiment is soon to be made on the

drum of the ear, upon 2 of the Maletactors now under

sentence of death in Newgate, by Mr. Chefelden, her Ma-

jesty’s Surgeon, in order to a more effectual method for

the cure of deatneis. § %.—- There ave 2 obstacles, I

fear, which will kinder the fucce/s of this experiment:

there is no law to bring theje Gentlemen under Mr. Che-

ielden’s hands till they are dead; ard if they consent to

come under them alive, he will find the drum of their ears,

through difufe, incapable of hearing.

Liverpool, Dec. 8. We bave becn greatly alarmed within

thele 2 cays, by 4 or § persons having received letters,

&e. 4 Ev.

Dever, Dec. 9. The Justices of this eastern part of

Kent having ordered ali the Constables, &c. to make dili-

gent fcarch after ail idle or suspected persons : 20 were

yesterday brought before them at a meeting at Wingham ;

among which number only 1 gave any fatistactory account

of himself; all the rest were committed to prison. did.

Monpay, Dec. 14.

Saturday morning early died suddenly in his chair, Mr.

Bugnis, Gentleman of the Ewery to his Majesty, a place of

16@!. per anu. salary, besides perquisites. C. Mr. Bagnes.

DP. Tho. Bagnath, E{q Ycoman of his Majesty’s Ewe-

ry, a place worth zoo]. per ann. D F.

They write from Hu'l, of the 28th [8th I suppose] that

cne of the Incendiaries having fent 2 letters to persons in

Gains»orow; a man of that town was purfind and taken

at Hull, where, being searched, several threatening letters

were found about him, and, upon ftriét examinatio:, he

confe(s’d the tact, and was committedto prisonthere. Jd.

His Majesty has been pleased to appoint theR. Rey. Dr.

Ed, Chandler, L. Bishop of Durham, to be L. Lieutenant,

and Cu%os Rotulorum of the County Palatine of Durham,

&e. Lbid.

The beginning of last week, Mr. Hen. Gould, one of his

Majesty s \feflengers, was dispatched from the L. Har-

rington s Office, with expresses for the E. of Chesterfield

at the Hague; trom whence he is to proceed with dispatches

to} Hanover; from thence to Vienna, from thence to Pru:

fia, and lastly to Copenhagen, oid

|

Worcester, Dect. 3.-kafis, mond. night a general priy,

search being made through this County, a great Dumber

of vagabonds were taken up, and about 20 of the mo@

f{ufpected were fent to the house of Correction. ’Tis mf

be wished this laudable practice was used in all the Coun.

ties of this Kingdom. Jdid. ©

Tuespvay, Dec. 15.

The Rev. Mr. Nairn is made Dean of Battle ig Suf.

fex. C. DP.

Mr. Barker is appointed to succeed Tho,

Efos DF

We hear that Dr. Friend, Master of Westminster Schoo’

is to be made a Prebendary of We&minster, in the room

of Mr. Suckling, deceas'd. DP. mem 1 am informed, that

Le is a@ually made such.

Wednesday last died of the gout in his stomach, ared 1

at his feat at Rickmansworth in Hertfordhhire, Tempe

Whitfield, Efg; a Gent. of about 1200]. perann. Jéid.

Hall, Dec. 12. A tellow in our goal has contetfed his

writing one threatning letter to a Baker at Gainsborough,

but disowns his writing another to Mr. Flower, tho’ ‘ts

thought heis the man, andin a fair way to be hang’d. The

Town of Barton was all yesterday {een in flamer, but no

boats came over till late at night, when we find 7 hous

were burnt, but no particulars. D F.

From Bristol we learn, that the Woman {ized at Bath

has informed against Will. Morris, tall in stature, black

hair, red pluth cloaths, wears a {word, the little finger cf

his right hand loft, and rides a forril horse: John Dayis

an Irishman, of a middle stature, having a {car on one

check, much pockfretten, generally wears a blue cloath

coat with gold buttons, light wig witha bag, a {wor’

and rive: a black mare . James Jones, of a middle stature,

having loft the thumb of his right hand, wears his owa

hair, a red cleath coat trimin’d with greer, a sword, and

rides a dun colour’d horte or mare: Anthony Arnold, pret

ty tall, a bulletemark on his right leg, generally wears a

black yelvet cap, black cl_aths, adword, and rides a

gilding. D P.

Chester, Dec. 8. Several bafe Vetters have been feat te

people in this City, threatning them with fire and (word,

xe. S$ F

York, Dec. 5. Weare informed from Newcastle upon

Tine, that the villeinous Incendiaries h.ve reached that

place, and fent threatning Letters to Her. Rawling, Eig;

&e. WE. ;

Saturday night 2 Bakers (Brothers) near Hide? gr: Co.

ner, were taken into custody, being charged with hiv: g

uttered a great number of counte: frit hali-pence. EP, $62

On the 6th instant a fire broke out at Mr. Char. she:

heara’s, a substantial Farmer at Ickleton ia Cambridge thire,

which burnt with such violence that they were not abs

to fave the finest team of horses in that Country, nor any

other living stock that was upon the premisses; ’Tis not

yet known how it cam’, but some traveilers were {u/pected,

and followed on that account. Z &.

Bagnafh,

grey

WEDNESDAY, Dec. 16,

On monday his Majesty in Council was pleased to order,

tha: the Parliament, which stands prorogzued on thurtday

the 17th instant, should be farther prorogued ta thurtday

the 21ft of January next, when they will meet for the

dispatch of bufinets. D 7.

Laft wednesday several Noblemen of the House of Com]

mons, with several Merchants, were at the board of trace,

on torming a new fetcecment in that fine pleasant province

of South-Caroins, for 1000 poor indigent peaple to {ettle

a silk Manutaéture by a charirable dubicription; which

was approved by the board; and this day they meet there

again to finishit. P.

Devizes, Dec. 12. The 3 men fent to Bath to f'ze

the fellow impeach’d of setting fire to Mr. Packer's houre,

seized him, but he denies it. The fellow is fent to lis

chester gaol. D 7.

From the Pega/us in Grub-freet.

The following copy of an Epitaph upon a Monument

ere¢led last week in the Cloifters of Westminster.Abber,

having been fent us, it Was ordered to be com:nunicated

to the Public.

Enry Witnuers, Lieutenant General, dejcended frit

a military flock, avd bed in arms, in Britaiy, Din

kirk, and Tanger. Thro the whale course of the tro lag

wars of England with Fraxce, ke jerved in Ireland, :*

the Low Countries, and in Germany; was prevent ine

battle, and at every sieges and diftiveuifeed in all bs :

activity, avalour, and zeal, which nature eave and be

nour improved. Alove of giory and of bis couctry, animate

and railed him above that spirit sebich the tvaae of x0

injpiress a desire of acquiring riches and bevowrs by iit

miseries of mankind. His temper was bursare,

™

aa. ‘

valence universal; ard among ald those ancient +

tues, which he preserved in pratice and in credit, mut

was nore remarkable then pb: hospita hy ig

|at the age of 78 years, ox the wicd of Nocersier

| VN er , , ~ ° = .

1 MDCOXXIX. Zo wolom this Mouarient fo oerscted be

Negroes to come and join them. ‘Take the whole Pro-

vince, we have about 28000 Negroes to 3000 Whites.

The Chiet of them, with some others, is apprehended, and

in irons. D F. Dec. 11.

‘Companion mt the Mars, and kis friend thro’ life, Hexny

DisNEY-

Here, Wrrnens, ref! thew brave zevtlep mind,

‘ army of Prince Thamas with a Body of 20,000 Horle, :

‘ and to drive out of their dominions all the Turks there 7

* in. ——The last Letters from Persia advise, that Prince 7

Thamas held the city of Babylon f6-close block'd up, that — a

Thy countreys friend, but more of bumane kind.

ob born to arms! Oo worth in south approv d!

O joft humanity, in age beloc’d !

For thee the hardy Veteran drops ate ar,

And the gay Courtier feels the figh since re.

Wirners adieu! yet not with thee remove

Thy martial /pirit, or thy focial love !

Amidf? corruption, luxury and rage,

Still leave Jome ancient virtucs to our age:

Nor let us Lay, (those English glories gone)

The last true Briton lies bercath this frone.

In our 25th Fourna/ we declared, that we thought it

highly reasonable, that all Compositions offered to the Pub-

fic should be either Rhime or Reason. We now give it

as our opinion, That all Poetical Compositions ought to

confit intirely either of blank verses, or verses in rhime

We therefore desire our Brother the S. James Evenina

Post, to forbear inserting for the future any such Co-

pies, as that in his Paper of Sat. Dec. 12. call’d an An

wer to the young Oxonian Bards Epistle to Mr. Pore, in-

‘ferted in WE. Tuef. Dec. 3. In this An{fwer, consisting cn-

ly of 4 Couplets, the second runs thus,

Know: Coxcombs, Fops, and Females will applaud

That whith may be of genuine merit void.

As we think that no man of tolerable parts or wit can

applaud {ach low profaic verle: fo we fear, that no Cox-

comb, Fop, or Female, that has any ear, will app/aud {uch

discordant rhime.

Mr. Srepuen Duck has modestly declin’d the honour

we conferr’d upon him, because it was done upon a wrong

motive, the Poems which go under his name, having

been printed without his knowledge, in a very incorrect

and imperfect manner 5 a genuine edition of which he de-

fens to publish in a little time.

The New Laureate was this day congratulated in the

name of the Society; but the Speech being too long to

insert at present, it must be deferr’d till another opporta-

nity, there being but just room enough left for the 2 fol-

Jowing Epigrams.

An Epigram.

Court Foors and Poets once illustrious liv'’d ;

With different titles grac’d distin@ they fhone :

But Both are now fo scarce, ’tis well contriv’d

To join a Pogr and a Foor in one.

ANOTHER.

The Ponders of this Age to latest time

Shall shine transmitted dowa in Proje and Rhime:

For fee! two equal Pens their tribute bring ;

Otpmixon shall record, and Crozer sing.

Edinburgh, Dec. 8. About § or 6 this morning, that

eonfummate rogue Joshua Beans broke out of the City

jail, by getting up a chimney, and got clear off by the

very means he was evpected to have been made faft, a

rope. It is most surpriving, that a fellow, who broke the

fame prison not a month ago, should not have been de-

prived of every opportunity of making his ef ape; and this

the rather, that it was actually furmiied sucha delign was

intended, to prevent which, z ot his contederates were care

tied from that prison to the calle 3 days ago. —We hear

from Paiily, that a Farmer in that neighbourhood had his

barneyard burnt to the ground by wilful fire. C P. Dec. 15.

Dublin, Dec. 5. A Proclamation is published, for pro-

roguing the Parliament, from Dec. to Apr. 22. C.

DF. Dec. 12.

Dublir, Dec. 8. By Letters from Limerick, giving a

Particular account of the taking of Croneer, we licar, that

after that miscreant had murdere: his Master and Mistress,

(as heretofore mentioned he made thither with all poflibie

{peed, and having lain concealed for some time till the Oop-

een of a thip offered, which was bound for Spain,

entered himielt as a Priest on board her, who was un-

der Prosecution there; bur being always observed, when

with the Master, to hold a handkerchict to his mouth, he

at last efpy'd his hare-lip 5 on which calling to mind the

description given ot him in Dickion’s Dubiia Intelligence,

had him immediately {cured and committed 'o goal, where

he does not deny the faét, bur pretends not to be the prine

cipal actor in that dreadful action; and that in case of a

| eet he will bring in several accomplices as yet un-

nown. E£ P,

Scuth-Carcling, Aug. 20,1730. The Negroes had con-

ired to rife and dettioy us litt faturday aizhr: but it

pleased God to contound their councils: for {om propoted,

that those of every Plantation shoulddestroy their Matters;

ut others were for rifiag in a Body, an: giving the blow

at once. They soon made a great Body at the back of the

Towe, and hada great dance, and eapected the Country

a7

-“«

FOREIGN NEWS.

Tuurspay, Dec. 10.

This day arrived a Mail from Holland, and 2 from France.

Berlin, Dec. 2. Our Troops having been duly exercised

for 6 months past, appear in excellent good order, and are

ready to assemble in 24 hours at farthest. S f.

Brussels, Dec.g. The Troops of his Imperial Majefy in

thi, Country are augmenting with all pofibls {pecd. did.

Frivpay, Dee. 11.

Paris, Dec. 16. N.S. Oa the rith the French Come-

dians acted for the first time, the Tragedy of Brutus, a

new Piay, written by M. Arouet de Voltaire; which met

with a general applause. C.

SATURDAY, Dee. 12.

Leghorn, Nov.25. The rebels of Corlica continue to for-

tify themselves ia the mountains, filling their magazines,

and augmenting their troops. C. DP. If they

Juccced in their undertakings, they will cease to be Rebels.

Venice, Dec. 2. The new Grand Scignior has drawn 20

millions out of his Treasury, to supply the pressing occa-

fions of the state; has re'ieved his subjects of several taxes ;

aud promised a great reward for the delivery of thebodies

of the late Mufti and Aga of the Janizaries, who are now

found to have made their escapes. Jdid.-—— 4 noble, and

uncommon instance of generofity this of the Grand Tark,

aud proper to be imitated 4y Christian Piinces. This

Mutti and Aga, it /eems, are now found to de in places

where they are not to be tound

Cadiz, Nov. 28. We ha-e just now received advice of

the \ing’s having ifued an order for delivering out the pe

rifhable goods brought by the last Fiots, on the Proprietors

giving security tor paying what indulto Mhall be laid there-

on, which is not yet fected. WE. LE.

Monpar, Dec. 14.

Vienna, Dec. 2. Preparations tor war are carry'd on

with the utmost diligence, as if no future negotiation

were expected this winter. Yesterday the Baron de Hul-

denberg, who has resided here 40 .ears, as | avoy extra-

or. inary from the Elector of Brunswick, Hanover, with

great reputation, had his audicnce ot leave of their Imperial

Majesties, &c. DP.

Tuespay, Dec. 15,

Yesterday arrived a French, and 2 Holland Mails.

Berlin, Dec.16. N.S. Tte King is now in the neigh-

{ourhood ot Oranien' urg, Where he has killed amonftrou

boar, that weighed 540!. "T's believed this beast came from

Poland 5 and his pi¢ture is ordered to be taken. C.

Mejcow, Dec. « Anew alliance has been concluded be-

tween the Courts ot Rufia, Vienna, and Berlin; the 30,000

Russians designed to enter into the service of the Emp. are

ordered to begin their march on the firit request of that

Prince; and the Empreis his ordered her torces to be

augmented with 40,000 men. D F.

Brussels, Dec.14. A ‘report has been spread here of

a plot discovered at Luxembourg : We are since intorined,

that a Lieutenant has been seized on suspicion of holding

a dangerous Correspondence, and jor taking a plan of ‘he

new fortifications of that fortress. DP.

Seville, Nov.24. N.S the Spaniards are building afore

at St. Roch, in the neighbourhood of Gibraltar, to put a

stop to the contraband trade that has been carried on there,

to the great prejudice of his Mijesty’s revenues. C.

Vienna, Dec. 6. Our Jatt letters trom Constantinople

advise, that thedeposed Sultan and the Prince his Son, who

make their residence in the old Seraglio, were treated with

agreat deal of kindness; and thar the new Sultan having

fent to know of the particular Person who occasioned the

resolution, if he had any favour to ask? he returned this

answer: * That he would neither ask nor accept of any

‘thing: that he had formerly been a Merchant, and traded

many years with the Eagith, ’til! by great loflés at fea

he was at last reduced, and is now resolved ro wander

about the world in his rags. C. --— T4/s Person is either

areal Patrior, or Madman; and perhaps beth.

Hague, Dec. 22. Anintinuation is just transmitted hither

from Paris, that the Castle of S. Germain en Laye is fur-

nishing for the residence of the K, of Spain: They fay, the

Queen finding it impofile to prevent his abdicating his

crewna second time, has persuaded him to take a little of

his native air, and to leave the Regency to her, which (if

truc) would be a fore of indireé abdication. P.

WevNESDAY, Dec. 16.

Dantzick, Dec. 4. They write from Moscow, that the

Interpreter of the Heer Nephuef, Resident of the Em-

press at Constantinople, was arrived there, with Letters

from that Minister, containing in fubitance, ‘That he did

‘ not believe he could procure audience of the new Sul-

‘tan, without fresh Letters of Credence; That the

* Grand Seignior had resolved to make a moit vigorous

‘ war against the Persians, and to chattile fevercly some

© Princes of Armenia and Georgia, who had joined the

‘

«

.

according to all appearance the garrison, confiiting of

12,000-men, of the bef{ troops of the Turks, would in

a little time be oblig’d to surrender at discretion, for want

of provisions; and that by this conquest. Prince Thamas

will be master of the whole kingdom of Babylon, and of

all Armenia. D F.

Hague, Dec.22. N.S. On tuefday their H. Mighti-

nefies gave their consent to the equipment of 6 men of

war, from 40 to 60 guns each, 0 be ready on the first

call to join the Spanish Fleet. is Resolution was made

in concert with a neighbouring Potentate, who will ob-

serve the fame conduét with regard to Spain: but at the

fame time it was agreed, not to declare war against the

Emperor, let Spain fay what fhe will, who is at liberty to

act as fhe pleases with her own Troops, and the contitie

gents of her Allics as Auxiliaries P.

Booxs and Pamputets published in December.

The present flate of Europe, Sc. for October.

A Plea for divine Revelation, in answer to a Plea for

human Reason.

The religion of Reason: a Poem. Price6 d.

Sequel of a Pamphlet intitled, observations on the wri-

tings of the Craftsman. Price 6d.

Fifty eight Sermons, &c. by W. Reading, M. A. in 2

vol. 8vo.

Historia Literaria,&c. N. vi. for O&ober.

Modern History, &¢. by Mr. Salmon. N. 77. Vol.

xii. P. 5.

The Infidel convicted; or a brief defence of the Christi-

an Revelation, &c. Price 1s.

The Candidates for the Bays: a Poem. Price 6d.

Farther observations on the writings of the Crafifinan ;

or short rernarks upon the Answer to the observations, &c.

The true foundation of natural and revealed Religion

asserted : being a Reply to the Supplement ta the Treacife,

intituled, The nature, obligation, &c. of the Christian Sa-

craments. Price is.

The talte of the town. Price zs. 6d.

Libesty and the Craftsman: a proje& for improving

the Country Journal. Price 6d.

The Coffee-house Politician: or the Justice caught in his

own trap; a Comedy, by Mr. Fielding.

The Political State of Great Britain, for November.

The new Polit. State of Great Britain, for November.

Sermons by Sam. Clarke, D. D. 5th and 6th vol.

Historia morbi, quo nuper mortuus eft Tho. Hurdmaa:

confcripta 4 Gulielmo Graeme.

fEiop unveil’d; or the beauties of deformity: being a

poetical translation of several curious fables, &c. Pr. 1s.

A true state of the Cafe between the Writers for and

against the Craftsman, &c. by James Phillips, Esq; Pr. 6d.

The battle of the Poets, or the contention for the Lau-

rel, &c. being an entire new At to the Tragedy of Tom

Thumb: by Scriblerus Tertius.

The regard due to Divine Revelation, and to

pemaen

ta it, considered, a Sermon before the Synod of Dumfreis

in Oétob. 1729. by Rob. Wallace. Pricer s. '

A neat and correct edition of Ignoramus: to which is

added the fifth Act, as acted by the King’s Scholars at

Weiltmintter.

The monthly Chronicle, for November.

The natural eflicacy of Musick to prepare the mind for

good impressions : a Sermon preached at Gloucester, Sepe.

2, 1730. by John Harper, M. A. Price @d,

An univertal History, N. iti. Price 3s. 6d.

Grammatica Lufitano Anglica, or an English and Portu-

guefe Grammar, &c.

A view of the Town, or memoirs of London, &c. Pr. 1s,

The history of the Church under the old ‘Teitamentr,

from the creation of the world, &c. by Rob. Muller, folio.

Pr. tl. gs.

The antiquities of Warwickshire: by Sir Will. Dug.

dale: continued down to the present ume, by Will. Thoe

mas, D. D. in 2 vol.

A Looking glass for the Fanaticks, &c. Pr. 6d.

A defence of some passages in the hiltorical account of

the ‘Trinitarian controverly, &c. by Will. Berriman, D D.

The adventures of Madam de Mucy with Count d’Al-

bert, a noted Lord in France, and Cellus, a lace English

Nobleman. Translated from the French.

Some thoughts upon Christian zeal; a Sermon at Ten-

terden in Kent, July 23. at a meeting of Ministers : by

N. Warren.

A defence of Mafonry, occasioned by a Pamphlet called

Matonry diffegted.

An effectual Scheme for the immediate preventing of

Street-robberies, and suppressing all other disorders ot the

night, &c. Pr. 1s.

An Enquiry inio the advantage received by the Arlt @

years inoculation

~ The BavsMifcellany: or Colley Triumphant, Ke.

4

a

er 2

~~

4

'

ase ee tle ee ee

I The Course

mm Amfer iam 349

f, Ditto at fight 34647

b § Sidam 34.10

=3r atweip 3 35 U

of Exchange.

Madrid 42

Bilboa 41 7

Leghorn 51

Genoa 54 1

Ce te

Ge

ix q1ito Oe

rt he idiz pr L 4th

Porto ¢ $8. 5

per Quarter

26 to 30

10 to

Barley 20 to

Oats -~ 12 to 16

Hor‘e Beans 22 to 26 6

Coals 28s. to 30s. per Chald

Wheat Tog Peas

Rye

-

22 ile Nialt

Srown Mal

ron.

4os. to 60s. per Hun.

tortl.

Hops 1730

Rape Seed 111. 10s, per Lait.

On Tuesday Stocks were,

South Sea 103 3 4ths, a7 8ths.

106 34ths. Bank144 1 8th, at 4th. I

a halt. Three per Cent. Annuity 97 7 611

7 3 4ths. African 49,450. — York Bui

Reval Assurance (1001. paid in) g6 a

ditto (131. ~ in) 12 1 qth, a 3 8ths

lation sl. 12s. 6d. South Sea Bor ne

ditto 51 18s. ~ Engl ih Copper 31. 1

Dublin 11 3 4ths. the Dyce of Katisbonne. ‘Tre

Prices of Goods at Bear Key. 1e imended cot to

I 'B ot}.

20 Boiling Peas -

Pp:

I

| Tares ——

Hops 1729 — 26s. to 39s, per Hundred. ,

-

This Day is pablif}ed

1 half r RO vp O gm L S,

re} For txinvine b CRITrioN

} i HE Necorrarioxs and EMBASSIES oF S

KOE, rut. Piivy Councilor w hing Ch

mot Noub 4 Utucr of ihe GARTL

a 3 Sths Denmerk, aid wo the V ee : the Ex

MTliictou, ici fs OF the

salt

ore eft Dait Geilp lied

Je Mace pu K T hiach wl be acded, many

1.3 ’ °

pusitn, as being of Goo privace

Limes or |

° ” h ¥oe 4? b /é riifius

ndia 190 3 otns, Ba:

is. Million Bank

ilding Sths. N.5 » will mike five Vol

ons i more than fou Will be pranied, ae 18 § oO”

1 4th. London ie ae

4 te ind at upw oi 400 be tublcrbed tor, che Ww

Bank Circu- fe che:per co che Publick, a liowed for in

© ‘1. 135. Indi+ PAOfTOSALS are deliver’d mialiS, t gecher W ith f

° ¥ 4 aK ' ime? + ‘ . . ,

Welth ditto 3 1.; WORK, anc 8 nen of a few of the Le

4 ICHAR DsaNn

esin themfeive:.

i Opera, Vol, Il.

Sub Lit ilo De

ADV

raniated frome tae brench © ts nal, j

f | fur slay,

for a d hi cfs gave the World

} «3

iw

6d.

Tire

may be bad, jt

Art of browi iy VTS, Ol tne

thé ition of thar V

on

~

>

my

.

7

.

y-

~

~

€

|

RTISEMENTS. “sh

in P tor-nofter how,

err

ft publish Am

i

bemale ocx

t mM Salsoury Courr, Fleet Stree: and &

, . ,

ivy WreaaN lef \

pe FALUGCONSON Ilia bDalta IT%ev A .@, 200d bY Nez

i ee: ,

‘i + o- Lee

P ak, Innys, NZ

sworth, and liith, iv Pater. Nofter Re

brahan, Brotherton, Linch fe, aod Waltee, in Core)

laa . nial Neh be > } r } 4 > | ,

This D. pts paptroed, aims Gerton, Gofiing, Weodrard, Veortan, hay, Brown, Guill:

_— H EA went t yaleud Mada a2 Niuecl, Meir bonipe Dae, Met. Keng aod Sterg, in Wefimt

“ | o a \ f heat i / a }

‘ ‘ ( A - 2 ho d {>} ti I Li) 5 Mal Lemon 5g MN ON IU, ha « Cromnfiel i at QamMVlicse »

Wt Ab, B Mre ALE sdint ”

rr > Ly diidd avalbe sbde Er: 7, Edinb Tile

a ee oe

oe

we | en ee

Npliey «eS

Uy an i Dittia tion. Ti

A ube ~(

OKK ih

he fecen

ame

and Rivington, in Sre Paul’s Church \

hs s

; Meili. é

r THOMAS

ARLES I. aud

R. Fem the

ami Urat, 333484 Venice 43 7 &ths edi 1629, 0) che Year 1644. Inv hicn Time he was Emobatia-

J} risat ie -t 22 1 3th Lisbon 5 s. 5d. 3 4ths. J . ata@vrdiiis y from hip Jam s l. ana nah. CHARLES I.

“4 - urd > - tie SGPand olipuar, tn L mvpeio hangs cf Poland, sweden, a d

allo w

i Dy him wil to

OUIeIss Wii

a Nature to be

terfoeriec wath

per Quarter

> to 18 2 large aceodnt o1 the bidoa les of Sif ROSERT ANsTRUTIER,

— ss FisAAC WAKE, Sis Wittiam Bos abihs sir DupLix CARLE

24 to 20 PON, the Luid scupaMoanc, the Earl ot ivicesTer, the Molt.

24 to 28 arte laid Eever-t ruble Ea ARUNDEL, ani other Pine

t 19 to 26 pal Maratkers of that Time. ‘fo which ere added, Authentick Ac-

v 1S, Oitetual Powers ana Eni uccions, Treaties of Peace and ot

> ‘ ve ' ) ‘ J

zo 0 25 Sommerce, and mary K.sve aid Valuable Pieces, of great Use to

ae up the Linfory of chat important Period. All trom their Orl-

pliial Letters and P pers Of Te.

ir df ee J i! }? Se I ys in J tu BAc WN. writen from ral ife Men, art

Ue of all th Yas ¢ lany tis my fadoment, th? b ft for they

ave more \ t | thaa Ovatt is and publi k o; ce@ ics, cia ave

more advil ¢ pan Covcere: orefene S » bes ain

y , F an Corer 5 or present Spee:hes. do afain,

Berk RS at ww fat? ‘ frum juin as manace then, gy are privy tg

. / a Pe i a’ of alse sys phe heft afc, i P ifiory nat

S uth Sea Annuity ’ ‘J f eft Inttruad: ws for Hilt wy, ana to

Fathi

Pr +°3- F

ciewllafe

umes in Folio:

ly each Vosume >

al) be render’a

a Payn en‘.

Account of

ITERS, Dy §

PALMER ard

: a

ying Bork

' ird 5

Tayram,

vil, Mell. Pem

avd Levan,

{ter Hail 5 Mr,

‘— they at

ver,

wae pa pabablwou al

Xr 4 —™. ,

- S his Day tg

The Hisrony of Ext

[To be covtinued.]

ne ey tne tour fkolowt z A

ove nder 16,1730, viz. Th

> i 30, .

Revert J halon, Hugh Morris an

Pu stil ev,

away

’s Sophon ba, Fing a comple

(Prue 1s. B coted at Ty barn

tivule-Sreakis

. gut the F young

x x diet ceiiae tan ae . 7 )

= aud Vices ca iWon for p< athe si George Bdrooc, at Glouceftes

Ll VY ALT a , } e ! \V } r

MOS a Join Chappello, k, jorivettaling; Abr

Leeds, tor'Venter cutting. ‘Low hich is

Windsor, ar

se

yon Whee

tad

-

CUTIONS, Numb,

4d.

Py ic e

VI.

Valefaflors exe

mas Rivers, tor

i James O'Bryan,

Md said to kave

> executed at Win-

» for 2@ Rioe

aham Powell, a

wiced, ALeter to aCleyy-

LONDON: Printed by A.

—— y b *¢ Ter : " :

Md ss Man, Concenirog e Cue ot Piloners urder Sentence of Deah.

. () - inet ry, re . ae: 9 72 fared Gr

Tall publihed, ocahioned by many Crianii dyirgin ea chitinate, hardened Stace

‘ beats } ° PP -« eh, 4 ‘ ° set Me ? . — etme 2

oe. e4i * Pogether with some Odfervations on the Incendieries, and jelonious

/ ira Edition ¢ roe Ont "i ;

J so . Leer waiters; a * Subdltance ot the Act ot Perliamevs and Pro

2 Yhide SPELLING DICTIONARY: Or, a Colltefttoa of feat Ing Tere.

com rete al he Bngath ‘Porgue, caretiny vite, Tae ne ‘umber will covain a Lift of the Ciiminals

‘ ther ery ‘ ' . : : °

compaed the " Li Lian puaye 'y ie Acs i rted trom 3 d an Index to the Whole. Printed by

; ‘ a j ¢ . )} me APF sie , ° ne ‘ | . ro . te

{1 marked a§ ih’ y a b¢ . be} r. bs : . | Ie INEWLO, AC Ole Joutis Gates and bod by the Pooktclersia’TPouwn

I kK. Ware, at the Bible and Sun in Warwick Lane. ud Cou

r : Vv e% be | : N t Ali

ae All Lo Ie F a . ‘ a 1 i . ALO

A may hid at the far Pace, a 1, tea, a Vosm, or Ladi s » China ( s 6 Price Gd.

1. The large Howl Bibles colin with the tix M cred Geo- | TE. ‘The Lives and A 5 of sand Roya Mipreffes 5 wit

ga | and a bifief Concordance for the Me cay Guang oul O) | me A mvies UF Lopes | I Se ‘

hes ~-DowxaAMe, B. D.

the P Y } C ( bittde Ry J l \ Aw e : "a a

Bound Calg Leather 2 Os. pei Book ,

A wih M. Suure’s Curs ae 21. s. Dino ACHE PiuBliwed,

. had 4

OO. Va wi.b Cuts 3'* 3% Parco iv f «Suv0. PriieSound 3 S.

; er ‘ . , ° wy g¢. Sere ie ie *2

a. A Le Ipuion OF 300 Anim oa Desiis, Bs G ? ithe Mindi T LRT ¥ I , MONS by the iate Rev. 7% hn Cob

\ rT w A eot ths Whaie t F

ype! i ib te S. Vi bial @ r PUCui as . | \ vd is ) ne. ied t s St Geers e th Uarryr

4 of che Authors, add o Wiewr al; Caf 7 . ‘e : , ec ie ?

k X(T t a : { { 1 ( i 3 Canieron u Ih anioul Ay wf, a

ai] 4 ( wid c . ag W f ,

pacines. tf yo allt t 1 Beat. 3; ie ix 3 i e | G:al ¢ i Caw ary: kr

j \ :

pti blares, W i i cir {i 4 y . i } tv} i { i ct it {ss hele

1 ' e ] bk ice 2 . ‘

Sop F i ct, de 1» bil ¢ } . 2 ¢ A }) i fr in z 4 Sel } 4 Wi ar ems’ it Pa cd

2 m , Chur he " oor. of r and in } pl wet od t 3 {t « tne Conte t thes Persons of i

t! y au Beauwy of the Church t an, d I Nei | } i >, \ we [lea () mE. Bix. UF Faiz

a r ret? r [) , , 7

weep an earnet and aff cu A cls tue Protettunt D ¢ ( O) faappimris. CEs f laa Of Righ:eos ‘yiem

By i: ber’ Warrer, D. D. Pine 35. Od. dhs > tg if 4 4 i " Gy Goa s Gran

¢ R - -_ . fsa > () ( r ie } fy; ,

, A “reanie i At hutcet re Vs af Ren ik 2 OH! t J . v > /} sda 4 © oud ba p ey

t ( jafter thercot SEBASTIAN LL CLERC, bh wer 2, ANI Fe Sa an ( wing ara Firfee

114 A . a sa Ag - , i \’ f ‘\ ) (7 ‘Pa

} \ LD r aud Em 1aver t the Cudi..e f eit H 4 aN ’ Nag . ° wy Talon, &

i > wT CF . , > *

kK Mem) oO; ¢ Acavemy of Arts and Si tences NE. Cilae Fo febel Ol, peu OP “ral UMIMEM ATO. Pe n faut Lie

sated , i “eas at » J la wa rr ’ ~ aA us F '

ry t; i 2? who woud a ly tO hat nocle Art. ~ % ‘ ( . j satis @! sata Jb é R 5 Rewa a¢ noe

y tor yauly | 7 a : ' 14, , oe pe : P ae

o phi Coppel Piales. by | No otult. Traniatead Oy Mr, Chamo6eis dy 13 $ dail 4 - i j ° ae rl 4 of CERES»

? - } / foy ro tee rf Of wt? 1 Hleart. Of beldin aft t/ i

pee 85% ay oa % «tall the § 1 ody Fear ? OF Covetonnes. Of iba J'0

Cc ‘eima i (; ] - Ca 4 it y a I . Pail a Cx "3 Sut y , »

f- ave ' N ‘ i M | “— j { ‘De Ta Db mwry Sa siienw. a St P- Y's

r leis I count Of bthe tars abd Mik C tow as : y '

anu Carteis; wi CoO" 4 ' ‘ DvD . 9c Fy cf Novemver 5 chic torethe L t House

: 4 5) . :

mor! \ G. Price I Ss. ‘ ( biti, \ i¢ yee t 1th ac f Be: N mrtntec.

) ms% Pr d..G1ILLIVEXR, tiumers Head inft Sz.

—— 9) Ni c i i e Tec le

This Day w iwi o, —_—-——- —=- - ne we

- : - , i \ \4 {

Pr-rced for J. BROTHEATON ot the bible nexc the Fleece Tavern a bhi. it ATER IN Tie WORLD,

in Cornhil). SO ca ed CY Caole HAVE eERPcl le Lit to Ge 10; for te ITCH,

‘ , } _— eruick Loer : my Cartiy'e rany tkching t s

HE Batrle of che Poets; an heiowk ioem, in .wo Carto’s, wey: ' .

4 l nein ‘oi i \ t Ai’ IngGs t Vibe; i Pood

rice ore Shlilt pe {1 1

ke the P fr ky ® si BeysS, Ol yorker Sores, | Miftule’s; at ha

ar RP ewer ” ny ram {> ‘ , hws bie

Non Bavius vi e the | ppy 7 try "ow, pri erai ti 1. havang che Lmbs i “i bea ali other

And place it here, bere ail ye Heroes bow, | mea h sale

1; Ly s be. fovetcddin ant nt Rhines, " ’ | } ’ } Pance

T J, hist f ] ¢ ! tR | A oO ») } Wid x ence

Pixe ~ { i ;

, A Ans be bri tnyntan Tress po ae ir aad san See ;

7) Aueilie corm fe bring Satnrutan Ti O35 Iris mbes f a re Gordge’s, at the Callle an W ollie iler- Ua

Ben a is Reign frail Cidber @ - be Buys ee Aire Radferd’s Toy shops atthe Rote and Crowa over-agaiuit St. Cle-

Aid yer preys Lora Chancellor of P ivy Duncia monpcs Church- Yard n= the Strand, near Aruacel-Streer Ends and

N.B. W hers may Qe fads Tie Battleor the Sexes. j ead Wiafriffe af ais. Wwaws Neria-Enica ce ut ie NOyas Lxche pe, over-

Dow bes a P em, and Mofihas and ‘Bion. Si Unit srlaoiomey -Lane.

This Dep is Wublimher,

In Two Volumes in 8vo; the Fi ft on the So olds,

and the Se

072 t j Fi 41 ts 1 ‘ cond

a N At Wi ical ind Mechanical E flay on the whole —

‘ \ MA -ONOMY inone Views wherein is fhey

he mott wonderful Conduét o: Nature in all the Ph “nom +t

ine Dodis: ‘Ce nta ining yar

mals, an} i ly explaining the mysterious Doét.:né 9} Am.

emine Mafcu Uwin whe the true Nature and Mode

, Conc pti oe peeeran OF or Fatus, The

rfondmne hin

ab eae ie huni

2W TF hicor y of —

le ot cn ‘nt iin “in ata e the Br ets in Men, i

Nat » Cauic Nd ‘srowth ot “ie Har, and why differen

in diff: t Parts of the Body 5 witha M svanicel Assonne

of Nuatsin Dhow pert ‘d nan Animal Bx is t Pain,

1.1

es, ant many tucs | ke Curicfitics; attra

ical Manner. Neeefiary foi al!

Young Students in 47

With an Alphalxtica

J tu on iCV¢ a

in V} il} {ici 4

aa | il } and p ilofot

Krow!] 2%, Part.ct

sick, d Surgery

thois Nam:s -ct-

By J. COOK, Studcne

in Edinburgh,

Printed tor

tlae

llariy

=)

at My, Ply.

ands 4 italorue of Ay

pag soars $ Treat

\.

and late

Angel in Carnhill,

> of the Co}

at t. 1c

Areadows,

——

N°. IV. Of the General History of Printine,

in Quarto,

By S. PALMER, Print

Printed for and Sold by the Author at his Pri) ting-H ufe

in mayeteian w Closes As allo by L. Gilljve: = Homer’s

Head Ste Dunstan s Chu: ch, Flvet-tires t, and Sold

DY J. Ko! rts in Warwick-Lane.

M here may be had Numb I. i.

This Numer contains Thing

Learned FF ROPEN, tt Basix: ot

< ainit

and ITT,

) AL mors of the

{ amo Y othe

“o C

‘os ocVU

Printer .

/

A e y

IVSCENSIUS, Al I vans Likewt/e a7 Account of the J ft P like

ing at ¢ ONSTAN' INOPLE ait SALONICA A00VE OO Jen's

sii¢e 5 as niogthe flo y of | oLYGLor Wot 1 ) Ore. .

, = NT .] fr y 3

N.B. Numb. V and VI concludes the fir? Folume. avd

} a «se . — ' * 3 ‘TY

males an entire Work. The

Second J ae So.a diff

nature, f

containing the Pra

put fo Prois when the fir’? Volume js

ich will be as soon as potfibh

‘ cal

Gig Dav is pub! —

With a curious New F, ontifpiece,

4 Neat and Correct Edition “of

AMUS A ait tagtl As i at

_the Oniveiiity of Cambrid e King James I.

Rite i di: ian 10 ghden the 8 fn “AG, as it will be A&el

e King’s Scholars at Westminster, To-morrow being the

use of December 1731. Together with the several Prologucs

| Eprlogues,

lers of London and Wet:

GNOR was Atel at

ta}

10 UL

Printed and fold

ruiniter.

lL by the Bookfe!

— -

Bereat of those Persons who ai

DROPSY,

Door to tie Baker ard

‘Fair, moar Weitt-Su ith

‘ 4 7 7

Elizabeth Knel!, who lives next

t in Middle-Street, Cloth

: on ;

YELL’ continues to perform fur at Curcs in the fil

XK Distemper, on both $ X€s, a li Aves,

N.b. An Account may be had ot feve al Cures at tie

Pise itor said.

om. ” / } , . 1 ie

ahe te bCehde Aiiv J e Tincture: Or, The Great Bune

AM ice.

a

~e

Us

“ar We tat m’d and approvid of for its won

ALS rae » ‘derful and never-tailling Sucecis, in

Mh; ~ ediate Ease and Relicf in all

ot Pains, cither inward or oul

ard, and is the most certain Remedy in

the World for a fure and fprcdy Cure

Cholick, and expell ins

_

. .

u ne wy oy

eiving im

{3

Gripes and Pains in the Stomach, the

Pleurify, or pairs in the fide, back, loins, 0

othicy 5 itl tcck A.lments, which czuf: pal

vo! i C iven lc fo Miia > Wi n all otha ’

’ shave faiPds Fa the Gravel and Stone in the At

js . forcuwitt ‘ nd biines them away to .

njation | » facilitates and caulis a tpecdy Dobay

n Chid-)1 ee »Q trix r thing to 2 i

Wold wih, but a rcal and welleexperienerd M dictic, net

éting by Stup -raction (as Opiate S) but by a tricndl’, .

famick, and fubtile Nature, pacitying che moit severe 4

rriole racking pads, anu carrics off the Canfe, not

Hsing, but 11 iration, by Urine, or breaking Win)

No Fomily oneht to be witl out it and ufid ouv

res 5S g=, Achcos, Pains, ict fs or Werkniuls

the Jo 18 Cromos, and a'l other

Infirmtiics, eff.éting Wonders in Agues, Feovxirs, Sin

ox, Xe. .

No Fam ly ought fo be without it. ”

It is jold only by Nie PARKE R, Printer, at)

j Oute i Sali 4 iy Court, or hy {1 We} Dero! S S

depute, viz. at Mr. Parkes, a Print : in Bull H at Cour

Tewi -Creots atthe W1 te Galion Por, @ Chandters Sn

in Bardy-Lez-Walk, So ithwark, and at My, Neal's, a J

hop over acauingt the White Hart Inn in the Bovous,

Fighteen-pence a Botile, with printed Directions: and, 1

quested, will be brought toany person, by the Hawker W.0

fells his Punny Poit. aled as above.

LONDON: Printed by A. Moore, for Captain Gulliver, near the Temple, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in:

also at the Rainbow Coffee-House in Cornhill, and Fobn’s Coffee-House in Sheer-Lane, near Temple-Bar.

[Price Two Pence.|

