The Grub-street Journal. Nuns. 52;

Chursday, DECEMBE R 31, 1730.

—~-_ SP

Falfus honor juvat, mendax infamia terrét,

4 r c

Quem, nift mendofum &F mendacem :

YO

Hor. Ep. L. I. 16.

It being now the end of the year, the Society ordered

me to examine such Papers as have been lately fent by

our Correspondents, of which no notice has been ta-

ken in our Yourna/, and to lay them before the Mem-

bers, with tuch answers and observations as I should

think proper.

Mr. Bavivs, Dec. 16. 1730.

Have been reading Dr. Grame’s Hi/to-

ria morbi gus muper mortuus eff Tho.

Hurdman. The story is well told, and,

Ibelieve, with a very good design. I

entir:ly agree with him, that to fee a

Gentleman overturned, and taxtum non

jugulated in the prime of his age, by

bleeding and b/iflering, and four or five medicines in

gne day, is melancholy and shocking. But I must be

angry with the Doétor for not writing in English, if

he can, rather than in Latin, in which he cannot. For

really this Hifforia is fo barbarous a piece of Latin, as to

be quite inexcusable. If it should fall into the hands of

the French and Dutch Physicians, what would they fay

of us, Or how understand those many Anglicisms, with

which each page abounds? Who would imagine that by

fe fatis bene credebat, was meant, he beliew’d bhimself welt

enough ? Pag. 2. Utinam medicos recentiores 1 with the

modern Physicians, ve//ert would, &c. Pag. 3. Unde op-

time evafit. Negotia appellabant, business call’d him. Sz-

pra aquam, upon the water.

todrink. Pag. 14. Sa/utarium fudorem, and in the firit

page poterint : no such words. Pag. 19. Nihil mei faciens

comflii, making nothing of my advice. Pag. 23. Mortem

attendebant, they expected his death. Pag.27. Horum

onnium nibil facio, I matter not all these men. Pag. 24.

Eprum fuiffe perditum ob neglectam beni medendi metho-

dum: he means, I suppose, that the Patient was loft for

_want of good management, methcedum beni medendi! how

diverting and ridiculous! But there’s enough.

Ithank you, Mr. Bavius, for declaring yourself an ene-

my to all Pretenders, and profeis my self to be of the fame

sentiment, who am yours _ Be

PS. Pray tell the Author of Mepga that he can't spell

the name of his Tragedy. It is Meprea; not Mepaga;

Myce ROt Mydawe

Cousin Bavy, 17 Dec. 1730.

N behalf of Mr. Duck, I, iome time ago, fent you a

few observations on his Poems: upon which you im-

mediately made him a member of your Society. In yeur

last, one ZL. M. makes some refleétions on me: and imme-

diately you declare Mr. Duck too considerable a man for

ted Society to expect the honor of his becoming a Mem-

rof it; insinuating that I had fet hin in a wrong light,

the edition we have of his poems not being genuine.

Now, Cousin, as simple as I am, or as you may take

me to be, I can tell you a thing, which, I dare fay, you

little think could enter into my noddle: You are certainly

in fee with some Bookseller; who, I suppose, is to get a

penny by a new edition of these Poems, corrected, 1 war-

rant, by the Author. My reason is this: because you have

Yoo much sense to alter ea opinion of Mr. Duck on ac-

count of any thing Mr. M. has {aid in his letter to you.

For, what is it, I beseech you, that he has taid, either for

Mr. Duck, or against me, that could have any weight

With you ?

In favour of Mr. Duck, he alledges, that the reception

bis Poems have met with, are fuphcient to determine their

tharafter. Alack-a day ! Cousin, you know better, and

therefore are daily labouring to correct the vicious taite

Of the many. Besides, you know, there is oftentimes a

appy circumstance that gives a thing a great advantage

yond its real merit; not to mention the caprices even

of the wife, which some times {pread a general infatuation:

Witness Hurlethrurmbo, &c.

{n answer to me, and, indeed, to any objections what-

oever, he fays, The edition is incorre®?, being done with-

ext Mr. Ducx’s afjent. This, I confets, may serve for

the thadow of an apolcgy for Mr. Duck; but none at

all for the Poems: tho’, indeed, it will stand him in little

Head 5 for, oat of all the DuckitinsI took notice of, Mri

Accidit bibere, he happen’d-

| M. does not pretend that I have wrong’d him in a-

ove two instances, which he calls false prints: tho’ it

! is certain he cannot prove them fo, unless he can fay,

+ that he had the corrections he makes from Mr. Ducx’s

own mouth. The instances are these, — The wo/f low-

ing: read, {ays he, /owring. This correction I allow to

be worthy of Mr. Duck. -— Fear that doth affright us:

read, fays he, affetas. This islikelier to be his riend’s.

Having thus answer’d Mr. M.'s cavils, I should take

my leave of you: but I must desire you to afk him, if

he belongs to your Society, what he means by iaying,

It is ridiculous to tell Mr. Ducx of expletives, e:lip-

Ses, pleonajms, 8 . ‘Don’t he know that I writ to you,

and appeal’d to proper judges; without any thought of

Mr. Ducx’s being the better for it: tho’, I find, he, or

his Friend (fo little reason has he to complain of me !)

will make an advantage of it in the next edition,

In short, as Fools (you know, Cousin) will be med-

dling; and every body is apt to think himself qualified to

teach his betters: a// my design was (to be plain with

you) towarn, at least, the unwary, never to suffer them-

selves to be borne down by the torrent of a general cha-

racter; but to endeavour, on all occasions, how singular

foever it may seem to be, to judge of things by their in-

trinsic value, like SmmPLE SIMON.

P. S. Now I think of it, Cousin I would not have

you mistake me, as if I was angry with you for publish-

ing a letter against me. I know it is agreeable to your de-

sign; and am satisfied, that contradiction and canvafling

are the most effectual means of discovering the trath. I

would have you therefore never to suppress any contro-

Versial Papers, that may contribute to the innocent diver-

fion or instruction of the Public; whatever offence they

may give to the wrong-headed or evil-hearted.

My Cousin Smow is much mistaken in imagining

that~his Observations upon Mr. Ducx’s Poems induced

our Society to chufe hima Member: other reasons were

asigned in our Journal 49, for our conferring that ho-

nour upon him. It is likewise as false to fay, that we af-

terwards declared Mr. Duck too considerable a Man for

our Society, &c. We only said, that he mode/tly declined

the honour, because done upon a wrong motive, &c he dif-

owning the present editions of his Poems, agd designing

to publish a genuine one: See fourna/ 50.

Gem this my Cousin roundly asserts, that we are cer-

tainly in fee with some Bookseller, who is to get a penny

by a new edition, &c. for this wile reason, because ewe

have too much fenje to alter our opinion of Mr. Duck,

on account of any thing Mr. M. bas said, &c. 1 with

my Cousin had had more fimp/icity in one sense; and

then he would not have brought this malicious charge

against us : er had had less in another sense, and then he

would not have given 10 fimp’e a reason to support it.

But I must assure him, that we we are in fee with no Book-

feller; and that we neither formed our opinion concern-

ing Mr. Ducx’s Poems upon the Criticisms of Simpis

Simon, nor have a/tered it upon the Letter of L. M.

our opinion jis the fame it ever was. And we think it

contrary to common Equity, that any Person should be

an{werable for any mistakes in an Edition which he has

publickly disowned : of which my Brother, Mr. Quip-

NUNC, produced the following proofs, which I think not

improper to subjoin.

An Advertisement in the Dai’y-Pof?, Wedn. O&ob. ra.

j Hereas a spurious Copy of some of my Vertes has

been printed, (to my great prejudice) in which are

above an hundred errors: this is to advertise the Publick,

that in due timea genuine and correct Copy of what I

hav» writ.en will be published by me,

Ofeb. 8. 17530.

This day is publifed with a remarkable Account of the

Author's lite together with his Effigies curiously engraven

on Copper, froma Draught taken by Mr. Medicis, an Itu-

lian Painter) The 7th Edition of Genuine Poems on ‘cve-

ral firbjects, by Stwruen Duce, &c. Printed for J. Ro-

berts, &c.

STEPHEN Duck.

N. B. The Poem call’d Royal Benevolence, and another

on Providence, were not written by Srepuen Duck, nor

by him presented to Her Majesty, as hath been falfly and

impudenily afhrined, bwt are a very grofg Impofision on

the Publick,

—a

7

A tham Advertisement hs also been ptblished in the name

of Sreruen Duck, with a pretended Complaint _against

the above-mention’d Poems, a certain Prefage of some mote

sorry idle Inventions being at hand.

An Advertisement in the Evening Poff, Thurs. Of0b. 19.

| do hereby acknowledge, that the Edition of Srerasn

Ducks Poems, which i: now printed, is spurious, and

that the Advertisement subsequent to Mr. Ducxs Adver-

tisement in the Daily Post of the 14th inft. was inserted

by me, without the knowledge of the Publisher, and I do

beg pardon of Mr. Duck and the Publick.

J. Jonss.

To the Societs of the Grub-street Critics.

GENTLEMEN, *

"Toe your remiffness of late, the Fournalifs seem

to have caft off all fear of your authority 3 and, with-

out either grace or wit, presume to put upon their Reas

ders such ribaldry and “iff raf, as loudly calls for your

feverer discipline.

Can you bear The Uxiversal SpeAator, (a name that

ought not thus to have been profan’d!) to swell and open,

in his last Essay, Numb. 115. (like a preface toa horrid,

barbarous, and bloody murder) twith tuch a superfluity of

unmeaning words as I have distinguished in the follows

ing {peciinen ?

The great power ard prevalence of cuffom and usage,

and the maniseft good and ewil influence and effect, they

are [it is} observed to have upen the constitutions as wel]

as the morals of mex, should, and eught te b¢ both a stand-

ing, as well as aw everlafling maxim and reaion, with us

at all times, very diligently and carefully to encourage

and support every good and laudable motive, we find in

our felees s and to subdue and reet-out every dangerous

and malignant one, in its rife and beginning, &c.

Can you bear J. W. a faithful Correspondent (phe calls

himself) to blame the Writers of another Weekly Paper for

their O/2 Geron, and The fray Love; and at the same time

to obtrude upon_ us, thro’ their canal, or rather kennel,

in Numb. 36. an Epi/ogue to the Sham-dofor, writ by

Mr. Kinsman, Ma/fter of pers, fremn 3 whom he would

have us to regard as a just judge of the decorum of a

pulpit: wherein he makes one of his Lads hold forth in

a very impudent manner, &c. Dec. 29, 1740.

Courtesy Nice.

The verses quoted in the Letter I forbear to insert, since

the republishing any thing which tends to lewdness, tho”

in order to expose it, spreads it the more. This Condué&

of J. W. is tomewhat like that of a Geatleman, with whom

I believe both Simpre Simon and Covrtiy Nice aré

not unacquainted, who inserted a grave and religious Let=

ter against our Society in that Week'y Paper, not long

after it had been defiled by the z lewd Pieces above-mentie

oned. We thought we had given satisfaction sufficient, by

acknowledging the Reflefion upos Mr. Houman’s death

to be literally ad/urd: with which another Gentleman,

who had likewise written to us about it, declared himéself

to be intirély satisfied. But the Censor of Great Brt-

TAIN would not be /o put off, but eye we should

have publifed, by way of penance, a long serious Lets

ter of a column and half. In which, among other

thires, he declares, that for his part be cannot refle& on

the hanging of a Dog with such a thoughtle/s gayety, &c.

and theretore I fear the following verses will occasion ana-

ther ierious Letter.

In short, to deal plainly with this Gentleman, f must

let him know, that Mr. Quipnunc, tho’ perhaps very

youn, has left the University a considerable time, and not

having had an opportunity of studying either Divinity or

Humanity in a Private Academy, has endeavour'd to dg-

manize himiclf in -our Society. Which I am commissioned

to assure him will be very glad of the correspondence of

such an ingenious and learned Person, as the Censor

seems to be, but is unwilling to tubmit to the enfiga of his

pedagogical authority.

The following translation of a copy of verses in the Car-

hina Quadragejimalia, pag. 129, Was feng us out @f> iH

the Country. ;

Shes

vs 4

EINE |

Ad idem fit caula diverforum? Af. |

Cim mifer extremas Lubinus duceret boras, hse <a

ht blande wxtri diceret ore, Vales S

Wer |

j

\

¥

Ad

\

{ iftia singultu late penetralia comple: ;

Rejpondet planétu flridu‘a {ponfa part. }

Ambo fuas mifcent lacrymas : tamen altera Spenja

Exprimit, & fletus altera cura Viro.

Lubinus do/et, infe mas ne tendat ad undas;

Sed, ne non tendat, mafta Marita dolet.

” Whether the fame thing can be the cause of different

effects ? Yes. Or, Conjugal Sincerity.

When Fondle-wife, now sick, and like to dye,

Call’d his dear Spoufe to bid her a good b’ye 5

Through all his house they heard his rucful moan,

And her as loud returning groan for groan.

The grief was one; but, ah! the ails were two,

That made these turtle doves keep such ado.

He wept, left to Old Nick he soon should goe :

But leit he should not, gives her all her “=

AVIUS-

LON D O N.

Important Articles omitted in our lat.

Yesterday morr. 2 private Cenrinel run the gauntlet on

the Parade, &c. C.17--——-— Tueld. morn. one Eliz. Wills

hang’d herself, &c. EP. WE. --— Mr. Burrows is made

Livery Servant co the Princess Roya'? in the room of Mr.

Girkin. $ 7. ——— Co!. Chartres is preparing to fet out

for North-Britain. $F. LE. 19. —— Sat. a person was

whipt round S. Jimes's {quare, for ftcaling brass knockers,

&c. P. 21. —— Yesterday 2 private Centinels were whipt

on the Parade, &c. C. 22.—- Yesterday a Coachman fel]

from his box at Charing-cross, traétured his skull, and

died. DF. — Yesterday the head of that celebrated Poe,

Wil'. Congreve, &c. done by a very eminent Painter (on

metal) [brass or copper] was hung up by M-.Cur!, Book-

feller, for his sign, &c. S 7. —— Yesterday a Barber’s Ap-

prentice in Long Walk, cleaning windows up 2 pur of

stairs, fell dowr, and broke one o his arms, &c. P. 23.

Tuursvay, Dec. 24.

We hear Mr. Sharp was yesterday appointed in Coun-

cil to succeed Edward Southwel, Efg; as First Clerk. P.

Yesterday both Houses of Convocation met, and were

further prorogued to wedn. Feb. 17th. D F.

A Person, ately a Hackney Writer in the Crown-Office,

hath defrauded about 40 Tradesmen of their great Coats

and Roquelars, and is gone off with them. DP.

It does not appear, that this Hackney Writer in the

Crown-Office bad any relation to our Society, as has beer

Salpefed.

“Gloucester, Dec. 19. They write from Trowbridge in

Wil-s, thit ene Ant. Clements was committed tor ravish-

ing a young Woman near Pewley, and robbing her ot

11s. 6d. akey, anda penknife, with which he stabbed an!

cut her in several places. D F.

- We hear there ts now in rchearfa] at the Theatre in

Drury-line, a new Comedy called, The Lover, written by

Mr. Cibber, Jun. C. The wit of the Son, correfed

by the judgment of the Father, will certainly produce a won-

dertul pe: formance.

A General Bill of all the Christnings and Burials from

Dec. 9, 1729) > 15, 1730, &c. Died between

8606 20 an'30 2048

Christned, < F. 851 , 30 40 24715

Inall17,118 40 59 = 2373

M. 13,306 50 60 «1713

Buried , F. 135455 ' 60° 7O 1577

Inal 26,761 70 80 1001

Tecreased in Burials 2961.DP. 80 90 622

Died under 2 years,10,368 go 100 133

Eetween 2and5 2448 Above 100 9

5 10 1092

1®@ 20 gol C. P.

His Majesty has ordered his Conge d’ Elire to be {ent to

the Dean and Chapter of Litchfield, recommending Dr.

Ric. Smallbroke, B. of S. David's, to be elected 8B. of

Litchfield and Coventry. 4 Ee. &e— The LE. of Dec. 17.

erdered this Conge d’Elire for electing the Rev. Mr. Dean

Claggett.

hitford, executed for a robbery in Bunhill-fields, {aid

he went withas much satisfaction to his death, as when he

event to be married; that he had rather dye than live; and

denied the robbery. EP. S 7.

Sir Cyril Wich. Bar. Env. Extr, to the Hanfe Towns, is

come to England on his private affairs, &c. E P. Uy’ E.

L E.—— This morn. the H. Will. Finch, ¢ ig; Fn it Brother

to the E. of Winchelsea, &c. fet out to embark for Hol-

land, being appointed Env. Extr. to the States Gen. SF.

-— Next Brother to, &c. embark’d on board a Sacht. LF.

ewww In C. Dee. 25.

Northampton, Dec. 19. The beginning of lat month

died at Aix in France, the H. Eiiz. Dolben, Wife of the

Rey. Sis John Dolben, Bar. of Finedon, (2d D. of the R.

H. L. Digby) &c. The eldest Son of Sir John is dead of

the Smal!-Pox in France, and his Daughrer now iies il] of

the fame distemper. £ P. WE.: In DP. Dee. 26.

Stamford, Dec. 15. One day last week a large Eagle was

shot in Dunnington Fenn, near Boston. ‘Tis still alive;

when it was shot it was teeding upon a goofe: the wings

extended are 8 toot in length. SF. WE.

A few days since a young Gent. educated in Weftm.

{chgo', made a private visit in the night-time at the Gate-

houft, to the noted I fabelia Eaton, when he was fet upon by a

great dog belonging to the goal, and tore infuch a manner,

that he lies now in great misery under the care of an emi-

ment Surgeon. WE. — I believe here is some mistake,

avd that it was a great Bitch, mot a Dog, which brought

this young Genr. under the care of an eminent Surgeon.

The R. H. the Lords of the Admiralty have given the

place of Messenger to the Commissioners of the Navy, to

| Mr. Hen. Doodey. LE.

A few days past have appeared some new Half-pence,

in which, by some great error, the r in Georctus is, Oe

mitted. Jdid.

About a fortnight since at a meeting in Crane-court of

the Royal Society, a new Statute was passed, enacting,

that every Candidate to be a Fellow, shall be named by 3

others, who shall fub{cribe their nomination, declaring the

name, quality, and qualifications of the Persons [Person]

proposed, whether they [he] have made any appearance

in the world by publishing on any subje& in print; ard

this Person’s name, with his Proposers, to be fixed in a

public room, where the Society meets, for at least 10

weeks before a ballot be proposed for their [his] election.

This method will, very probably, difeountenance many Cane

didates of more assurance than merit, who frequently fuc-

ceed in what they .im at ouly by a strong harden'd tronr,

and may possibly retrieve that credit which has been de-

caying tor above 40 years past. Jbid. —-— I take this

to be a false and fcarda'ous reflefion, both upon the Reyal

Society, axd the glorious Resolution.

Fripay, Dee. 25.

Laft friday a fem. Child was taken our of Fleeteditch, a-

bout 3 months old: the head was cut off, the belly ript

open, and the bowels taken out. The Coroner’s Jury

brought in their verdict, Wilful murder. C. DP.

Mond. last Mr. Shaw and Mr. Evered, both neighbours,

came to the 3 Horse-shoes in Whitecrofs-street, where a

Guarrel enfued concerning the election of their Ward Officers

that day, and many severe blows were given on both fides

before they were parted: After which Mr. Evered went to

another Alehouse, and drank a pint of beer be ore he went

home: the next morning he was taken il!, anddied about

8 &c. Mr. Shaw absconded: but on wedn. the Coro-

ner’s Jury gave in their verdict, That he died a natural

death. C.

This day the duty on falt expires. Jéid. It is expected

that in a short time it will be fold for 2 s. per buthel. P.

We hear that his Exc. Maj. Gen. Sutton, Env. to the

K of Prussia, to the K.of Sweden, as P. of Heffe Caffel,

and the D. of Wolf-nbuttel, has leave to return home, a-

bout his private affairs. D P.

Laft week died of the Sma'l-pox, at Winneflay in the

County of Denbigh, Miis Williams Wynne, (aged about 14

the only Daughter and Heirefs of Watkin Williams Wynne,

Esq; a Gentleman of 20,0001. per ann, Jbid. — She was

heir, by her mother’s fide, to 5000 |. ayear. P.

A Bolus tor a Cold. Take of Venice Treacle half a

dram; powder of Snake-root 12 grains; powder of Sat-

fron 6 grains volatile falt of Hartfhorn 4 grains; fyrup

ot Cloves sufficient to make it into a Bolus. To be taken

going to rest, drinking a large draught of warm Mountain-

whey after it, or Treacle-poffet. To such Constitution:

as cannot be provoked to sweat, opening a vein, or a gens

tle purge, wil be of great service. D F.

SaturvDay, Dec. 26.

Yesterday being Christmas day, the Rev. Dr. Gilbert,

Dean of Exeter, SubeAlmoner, and Clerk of the Closet

to his Majesty, preached before the K and Q. their Royal

Highnetles the P. of Wales, and the 3 eldest Princesses :

atter which they received the H. Communion from the

hands of the R. Rev. Dr. E‘m. Gibson, LB. of Lon.

don, oy of the Chapyel: assisted by the B. of Exe-

ter. C. &e.

Thurs. Nichola Paxton, Ef1; was appointed Sollicitor to

the Treasury, in the room of Anth.Crachroad, Efqs who

religned that office last tuefday. C. D fF.

“bout 500 ofhicers employed about the falt duty are dif

charged. C. DP. This will increale the number

of our Candidates s and, I think, we ought to follow the

example of the Royal Society in making a new statute.

Yesterday morn. early died at his houte in Brook-street,

near Grosvenor-{quare, after a short iliness, the Right Ho-

nourable the Earl of Deloraine, Knight of the Bath, and

one of the Lords of the Bedchamber to his Majesty, C——

About 2 in the afternoon. One of the 16 Peers for

Scotland, Major Gen. of his Majesty’s Forces. He was

youngest Son of James Duke of Monmouth, beheaded in

the reign of K. James If, Tis observable, that he is the

first Knt.of the Bath that has died iince the revival of

that order. He is succeeded by the Vifc. Hermitage, a Mi.

nor, who is abroad on his travels. D P. It was

reported last night at S. Jamaes’s, that the E. of Deloraia

died last thurfday at his {eat at Ledwell ia Oxfordilire. p

He died of a fit of the DeadPalfy. SF. WE.

This week died in Surrey, Mr. Will. Chapman, one of

the Pro&tors of the Arches Court of Canterbury in De.

étors-Commons, © D P.

Laft wednesday night one Mr. Chanco dropt down dead

in a fit of Apoplexy, at the Compter Gate in Wood.

ftrect. EP. Mr.Chance. SF. WE. ——Thursday noog

Tho. Chaffin of the Middle Temple, Efqs was seized with

an Apoplectick fit, as he was walking thro’ Ludgate-street ;

and died yesterday. He was a Batchelor, possessed of

15001. By ann. besides a) very considerable personal e¢.

state. .

This day the R.H. the L. Mayor and Sheriffs distribus

ted to the Prison in the 2 Compters and Ludgate, the

Monies collected by them last wednesday. The fum much

exceeds what has beea collected at one time for many years

pat. SF. LE.

Rob. Hucks, Efg; Member of Parl, for Abingdor, was

married wedn. last to Mrs. Sar. Coghill of Aldenbam in

Hertfordshire, a fortune of 30,000 |. LE.

Tuesday last a Gentleman, who lately turn’d Papist, bro.

ther to acertain great man, made a great disturbance at

Court, infomuch that the Guards were ordered to carry

him home to ‘his lodgings. Cr.

“Monpay, Dec. 28.

The D. of Norfolk having a great number of poor Peo.

ples to whom he gives yearly a very handsome allowance,

his Grace being now in France, hath fent orders to his

Steward to pay them their pensions quarterly. C.

Laft week [wednesday C. D P.] died at Bath Mrs. Smith

Governess to the Princesses Mary and Louisa. P. Gover-

ne{s to his R. Highness the Duke, and Daughter of the

late Mr. Speaker Smith. DP. DF.

Thursday Mr. Miller the Glover in Moor-fields received

a second threarning letter. C.

Yesterday Morning about 4, 4 Chimneys fell down at

the top of the P. of Wales’s apartment at S. James’s, which

did no other mischief than that of alarming his Royal

Highness. P. D F.

Mr. Tho. Buck, an eminent Grocer of Sheffield, and a

Quaker, received a threatning letter, demanding 50 Guineas

&c. Upon which two suspicious and disorderly persons

and a woman have been committed. ———- 14 Persons have

been Jately taken up at Malton. DF

_ Francko, brought from Norwich, having been several

an examined, is we hear ordered to be admitted to Bail

The corpse of the late E. of Deloraine is to be carried

from his feat at Leadwell in Oxfordshire where he died,

te Buccleugh in Scotland, Jéid. —~ See Sat. Dec. 26.

Tuespay, Dee. 29.

We are assured that the late Dr. Ric. Holland, has left in

his will 50]. toMr. Tho. Chubb, Author of a volume of

Tracts in 4'0, as a testimony of his respect to that Gen-

tleman’s writings. DF. Excellent writings. C. P. DP,

This learned Physician bas paid Mr. Cuuns much

better for bis farthing candle of humane Reason, thaa the

late learned Lawyer Serjeant M paid Mr.Gor pon

for bis {moaking Flambeau.

Thursd@ay died at her {eat at Weftcot in Oxfordflire the

Lady Chetwynd, in an advanced age, a Lady of tinguis

virtue and piety. C.

Saturday 2 men, Wyate and Wells, were committed to

the new goal in Southwark, for going about with a Pe-

tition, as sufferers by fire. It appeared by a pocket book

found upon them, that they had collected in Kent and

other places, upwards of 40]. Jdid.

We hear that Mr. Rich designs very fpcedily to enter-

tain the Town with a Scotch Opera, written by an inge-

nious Gentleman, now in rehearsal : and, ’tis said, the prin-

cipal s will appear in Highland drefles. JJid. —

A Welch Opera may be proper to succeed this.

Tuesday the College of Physicitans proceeded to an elect»

on of Cenfors, and chose Dr. Bouchiere, Dr. Marten, Ds

Mountfort, and Dr. Mortimer. P.

Yesterday morning Sir John Gonfon, &c. examined fc

veral idle and «iforderly persons, taken up the night befor’,

and committed 4 of the most notorious to the houft of

correction in Tothill-fields. P. DP, D F.

Mr. Fetherflone is appointed one o° the Clerks of the 4

chief Officers of the Board of Green-cloth, &c. D P.

At Watford in Hertfordshire 1 Persons were seized on

Christmas Eve, on suspicion of fending 2 threatning let-

ters, &c. Jbid.

Friday Mr. Jof. da Costa Villa Rea!l was taken il! of the

dead Palfey, and died on sunday night at his house on Col-

legeshill. He is reputed to have died worth 80,000 !. D 7.

Laft week | 3000]. was paid out of the Treasury to the

several Persons concerned in apprebending 12 of the 13 ¢x*

cuted at Tyburn last wednesday. did.

-~7-

Wevwnespay, Dec. 30.

On Friday next will be, at the College of Phyticians, #2

Examination ef three Candidates to be Fellows, Gentieme?

bred in the University of Oxford, well esteem’d for the!

excellent learning, as well as skill in their Profession, vi?

Dr. Wigan, lately of Christ Church; Dr. Burtov, of New

@eileg’s and Dr. Leigh, of Corpus Christi; the first was

rppoied to be a Member of the Royal Society, but by

3 Party unworthily rejected. D P.

» Inthe late new Regulation of the Royal Society, Noble-

men and their Sons are e empted from the directions men-

tioned in one of our last; and its {urprizing, foreigners

emoy not the fame Privilege, but are to be posted up pub-

ickly: The policy of this is thought to be in order to

diminish numbers, which have been of late years very

much encrealed. D P.

From the Pegasus in Grub-street.

The following Copy Verses by Mr. Poppy, may serve

a3 an Answer to several Persons, who have abus’d our So-

ciety; and particularly toa Renegado, who has been very

Witerately {currilous in an ob{cure Weekly Paper.

Urxore onee meta tumbrel on his way,

O'confind in Which two Libyan Lions lay.

gPoetic Prose, profaic rhymeing Strains,

Had crack’d, you know, the poor Knicut Errant’s

brains.)

Tl’ unwilling Keeper, at the Knicut’s command,

Unbars one Lion’s cage with trembling hand.

Disco and Sancuo could not bear the fight,

But wifely fought their safety in their flight.

The Lion rous’d, put forth his gaping jaws,

Lick’d his red eyes, and ftretch’d his dreadful paws.

The Knicur undaunted rais’d his crooked nele,

And challeng’d him aloud in verse and profe.

The.noble Beast survey’d with scornful grin

His hollow eyes, and rueful length of chin :

Much wond'ring at his face, his language more ;

Such face ne’er seen, nor language heard before;

At length determin’d not to fight, nor rail,

He flowly turn’d himround, and shew’d his tail.

At this the Knicur in high Romantic strain,

Defies him o’er and o’er, but all in vain :

Regardless of his noise, the generous Beast

Lay foftly down, and clos’d his eyes to rest.

The Fugitives return’d, tho’ fafe, well {car'd,

To them the Knicur his valour thus declar’d.

¢ This voice and look has quell’d the Lions rage;

¢ He turns his back, and dreads to leave his cage.

¢ Nought can his dastard foul to arms excite,

© He knows I'm capable, and dares not fight.

The Keeper whifper’d Digco in the ear :

¢ This valiant Knight has neither wit, nor fear.

¢ The Lion chang’d a Tragedy for Farce,

‘ And in plain tokens bade him kifs his ——

An EPIGRAM.

VY ELL, said Apotto, still ’tis mine

To give the real Laurel :

For that, my Pore, my fon Divine,

Of Rivals ends the quarrel.

But guefling who would have the luck

To be the B---- day Fibber ;

I thought of Dennis, Tissatp, Duck,

But never dreamt of Cipper.

Dublin, Dec. 19. Tho” it has been published in {several

News Papers, that a reprieve was fent from England for

Mr. Porter; yet we are informed, from undoubted autho-

rity, that no such reprieve was ever fent hither. P.

FOREIGN NEWS.

THuursvary, Dee. 24.

Yefherday arrived the Mail due from ¥rance.

Paris, Dec. 30. N.S. Wehear that several Camps will

again form’d in the Spring, for which provision is

making. —- M. Ramsay, lately admitted into the French

Academy,’ is made Gov. to the D. de Chateautiery, Bro. to

the D. de Bouillon, with a salary of 3000 livres a year, and

an assurance of 2@00 livres a year pension. C. DP. Chafeau

Thiery. F. A promise of 2000. P. DP. Letters

from Seville of the 1oth advise, that their Catholick Ma-

Jefties, and all the Royal Family were in perfect health.

P. DP. DF.

Dresden, Dec. 17. The King being determined to

augment his Saxon troops to 42,000 men, money has been

ditributed amongst the officers to raise the necessary re-

fruits, and buy horses. D P.

Hambourg, Dec. 22. Some Letters from Moscow take

houce, that the D. of Liria ftrove all he could to impede

the ceflion of the 30,000 Russians to his Imperial Majesty,

but found all means ineffectual. bid.

Cadiz, Dec. 12. By Ship. The effects of the Flotilla

ste not yet delivered; and when they will is uncertain. P.

he {carcity of money, occasioned by the deten:ion of

*hé treasure, creates inexpreflible confusion. 4 Ev.

Fripoay,. Dec. 25.

Extrat of a Letter from an Engliie Gent. at Constanti-

"0p:e, whole veracity may be depended upon. Pera, Sept.

39. 0.8. 1730. Thea

|

| the fame.

%

of the affairs of Perfiz, made the G.Vifir make a feint as

it he would head the army; and go against the Persians.

Accordingly there was an Alloy; the G. Seignior, Vizir,

&c. marching over to Scutari, and encamping there. The

Vizir at the same time (as it is said) had disparched a Cou

rier to I{pahan, to patch up 4 peace. The People finding

that the Armies march was put off from time to time,

grew daily more and more discontented. —- Thursday the

#7th about 10 in the morning, one HaLveer Patronal fo

cal'd because he once belong’d to the Vice-Admiral’s Ship

named Patrona) a common Janizary (who used to fell old

cloaths about the streets) withan Emir, and some few Raga-

muffins, went to the Sharfhee, bid the People shut up their

shops, and ordered ai] true Muffel men to follow the stan-

dard of Mahomet: upon which ali the shops were shut ;

but the first day few People came unto the disaffected. —

The G. Seignior and Vizir were at Scutari. Had the Vizir,

with what People he could get, immediately come over to

Constantinople, it is thought by many, that he might have

guafh'd the rebellion: but instead of that, he and all the

other Great Officers went with the Sultan into the Serag-

lio. By friday night all the Janizaries left their -hambers,

and encamped in the Hippodrome. — The G. Scignior hung

out Mahomets standard, inviting all his faichtul subjects to

come to his aflitance : but none from abroad would come

into him, and many that were in the Seraglio went out

and deserted him. Finding the number of the Rebels to

increaie, and that there was no likelihood of {upprefling

them, he fent eut to know what they would have. They

demanded several Persons, in particular the Vizir, Kiau,

and Kaimacham. It is said the first person fent out to par-

ley with the Rebels, acquainting the Vizir with their An-

fwer, the Vizir persuaded him to tell the G. Seignior, that

they fought the G. Seignior himself and that the Vizir de-

fired a second person to tell him the fame story, but he

told him the truth. Upor this the G. Seignior gave or-

ders that the Vizir, Kiau, and Kaimacham should be ftrane

gled, and their bodies delivered to the Rebels. It is the

opinion of many, that if they“had been delivered upon the

first demand, the Rebels would have been contented; and

that this delay loft the G. Seignior his throne. After

this he fent out to know their further demands: their an-

{wer was, that they would no longer have him tor their

Sultan, but his nephew Mahmud pon which he fent for

his Nephew, and told him, that he was willing to deliver,

up the throneto him, and withing him all success and ha

piness in his government, advised him not to suffer him{elt

to be led by his Vizir, and to be generous towards his {ub-

jets. Then they chaaged loigings: Sultan Achmet and his

fons went into Sultan Mahmud’s prison.—The Rebels have

not injured any private Persons, but have cut off several

Rascals, who have taken this opportunity of robbing and

committing other outrages. Friday laf the new G.

Seignior had the {word girt about him at Ajub: the Chief

ot the Rebels Hatucet Patrona rid before in the Alloy.

The Rebels are not yet dispersed: but we hope that wher

they ar: ail paid off they will lay doavn their arms, and

retire to their separate homes. — It is said, that in the late

G. Scignior’s private Treasury were found 82,000 purses

of money; and in the late Kiaus 7000. They talk of an

immense {um in bars of gold and silver in his Magazines,

amounting to near 100,600 purses. P. —— I wonder that

this Gentleman should call theje publick-/pirited Janizaries

Rebels, azd their General Haut ev Patrona the Chief of

the Rebels, even after the late G.Seignior had made a vo-

luntary Abdication of the Throne. Had they mifcarried in

their enterprije, they had certainly been treated as Rebels,

and the generality of the world would have branded them as

Such: but since they succeeded, they will justly be ceicbrated

as gorious Patriots.

SaturpDay, Dec. 26.

Prague, Dec. 12. N.S. A fire happened lately at Sagan

in Silefia, which destroyed 15 public Edifices, 320 Burgh-

ers houses, and 21 barns, with all the corn of the last

harveit, &c. This Town has been thrice laid in ashes in

the space of 43 years. C.

Hague, Dec. 29. Private Letters from Brussels inform

us, that the Government is going to demand about 200,000

*lorins of the States of Brabant, to supply a prefling oc-

casion. Men are a¢tually at work upon the fortifications

of Ostend, and of Gravelines. P.

Extract of a private Letter from Liege. The Impe-

rialiits here will have the conduét of some of our neigh-

bours to be very unaccountable; who, after having {pent

fo much blood and treasure to prevent a union of the 2

Crowns of France and Spain, seem, in their opinion, to be

now uniting them more cloiely than ever; which they take

to be as contrary to their true interest, as the establih-

ment of abranch of the House of Bourbon in Italy, in

which they have thought fit toconcern themselves. Jdid.

Paris, Dec. 26. My L. Waldegrave having assured the

Marg. de Caitellar how ready England would be to exe-

cute all that Spain could expect of it, the Marq. had a

conference with our Minitters, and acquainted them with

The Ministers answered, that France should

fend 100,000 men upon the Rhine, provided that Eng-

:; } ee

The aucontents ot the People on account | land would fuenish thereto 30,000, and Holland 20,000;

and that France will have 17,00 in Italy, on conditiod

that the English shall have there 8500, and Holland

000; moreover, France offers to fend 25,000 inte

auphine, either to ‘ong? the King of Sardinia, or to

a&t against him, to this England be obliged to fur-

nish their part in money. As to the Lower Saxony,

that the Swedish and Danish Troops, in the pay of France, .

shall join those of Hanover and Hefle, to make a diver-

fion on that fide. This is the Plan. the French Ministers

have proposed, to which those of England have not yes

made any answer. F. £ P. ‘

This Day arrived one Mail from Holland.

Vienna, Dec. 20. *Tis confirmed that 50,000 men are

certainly to be ra\fed soon after the Holidays are over; for

the more easy performing which; all the men to be enlisted

are to be of a certain age and height. § ¥. — This I should

imagine vould make it more dificult to perform. The fol-

lowing account clears up this matter. —-To facilitate the

lifting of Foot Soldiers, the O‘ficers of Cavalry are ordered

not to take any into the service but of such an age and fla-

ture. EP. LE.

Bruffls, Dec.28. A Courier from Vienna is arrived

with an order to increase the national Regiments each with

4 Companies. The Officers, for the easier raising recruits

have obtained leave to enlist persons for 8 years, and not

for life as is pra€tifed among the Imperial Troops. E P. SF.

Hague, Dec. 31. The celebrated Mr. Saurin dyed on

the 2gth greatly regretted. Jéid. -— Some letters from

Moscow bring an account, that P. Thamas had obliged the

Bafhaw of Babylon to enter into a Treaty with him, That

all the Turks conquests for 4 years should be delivered

up. SF. LE.

Seville, Dec. 8. ‘Tuesday last, some persons were ar-

rested here, who are closely confined; and Expresses are

fent to the frontiers to arrest others. This affair makes a

great noise, and the more because it is kept very secret.

The Troops of this Crown are to be augmented with

25,000 men. WE. — J insert this as a great secret, bee

cause /¢ makes a great noile.

Monpay, Dec. 28.

Lifton, Nov.21. N.S. The Academy of St. Ubes was

opened again on the icth, when the Doétors Vincent de

otta de Carvalho, and Hyacinth da Sylva da Miranda read

each a Dissertation upon this Question, Whether it was

more for the\advantage of the Romans to defroy Carthage,

than to preserve it. The arguments were fo strong on

both fides, that the Judges could not determine which of

the Orators excelled the other. C. Dec. 2. ———= The fleet

from the Babia arrived in the river this moroing. C. P.

Cope:.bagen, Dec.19. Yesterday the co:pfe of the late

K. Frederick 1V. was interr’d with gtcat pomp at Rott

child. D P.

Moscow, Dec. 4. The D. of Liria, Ambassador of Spain,

fet out the 30th past to return to his Court. D F.

Brussels, Dec. 28. Count Konintecky forme:ly the Eme

pe:or’s Ambassador in Spain, afrived here the 25 h from

Paris. Jd/d.

Tuespay, Dee. 29, 3

Extra& of a private Letter from Seville. The N inifters

both of England and Holiand, join the Cardinal in demand

ing the diftritution of the cfedts of the Flotilla, indepen-

dently on al] other concerns. But let the manner of de-

manding this distribuiion be never {0 shocking, it could

not exceed that in which Mr. Keene’s demand was treated

here, that orders might be fent to Vera Cruz for holding

of a Fair extraordinary, whenever the South Sea Companys

{hip should arrive. P.

Extraé& of a private Letter from Paris. The Mini-

fters of this Court are very much divided in their fenti-

ments about the entire demolition of the works which re-

main at Dunkirk, after the late demolition that was made

in conformity to the Treaty of Utrecht, and to which it

is pretended no additional work has been made. Some

alledge, that it would be shewirg too great a complaifance

for the English, in return for the little regard they have

had for France upon several occasions. bid.

This day arrived one Mail from France.

Paris, Fan 5. Vis advis'd from Rome, that the Pope

held a Confiftory the 11th, wherein he declared Signor

Corfini his nephew Cardinal. EP. WE. L E.—

The Plenipotentiaries lately at this Court are all gone

homeward, except the Spanish and British, who continue

to confer about the Affairs of peace. S F.

Wepwnespvay, Dee. 30.

Gibraltar, Nov. 28. O. S. The Spaniards, who ever

since the lait Siege have been too near neighbours to us,

fee: now to have a fresh design in view: all their ma-

fons and great numbers of people from the coalt znd ¢-une

try as far as Granada, are order’d to this camp, where

their chief Engineer and many others are come, and about

12 days since they begun to work on building a stone

wall cross the neck of Land, and behind it a regular For-

tification, a Battery to the East Sea, one to the Bay, and

about the middle a regular Polygon, one of the Angles

. — —— roe: ee . r

*. ae ang as » SOS RS aes ay seh we Oe Ae thee

— ~~ ams ba Sa

projecting to Willis's, and tis said they propose to fortif;

Lt the opposite part of the Bay, and to build a Series

on Cabrita point. The Romney man of war fails this

day to give our Court an account hereof, and get proper

instructions for our Genetals behaviour, for this work is

within gun shot, a little behind their hutts. We have in

our Bay the Canterbury and Dreadnaught men of war of

60. Guns, and 6 others of ;o Guus, and g Regiments in

Town : All our Batteries are in good order: the wall

from the Gun Battery to the New Mole has been lately

repaired. Our soldiers are all in good health, and the

Garrison in good condition. We have heard from Lon-

don, that two of our Regiments are design’d for Jamaica,

and that Admiral Cavendish would be qil’d home; but

we don’t find that any such orders are yet come. You'll

have heard of the two Ships taken by the Sullee Cruizers,

and that one of their Crews, with a Cruizer, being re-

taken by a Dutch snan of war. The Gofpor: has been

twice to aeinand them; but to no purpose, it being ex-

pected that some persons should wait on their King with

resents. The poor people are given to a Jew, named

Rccniani, as {upposed to make money of by iale. This

Rupture respects only Sallee; T'ctuan and ‘Tangier, pro-

fefling great friendship for us. The powder tor the late

Captives Redemption, goes this day for Tangier. F.

Pampucets published since our iaft.

A draught of a bill for the more easy and speedy seco-

very of iimall debts, &c. by Chriit. Tancred. Pr. 6d.

A Defence of the Bishop of London’s 2d Paitoral Let-

ter, &c. By John Browne, M. A. Curate of Richmond.

On Tuesday Stocks were,

“South Sea 103 7 Sths, to 104 for Opening. South

Sea Annuity 106 3 4ths to 7 8ths. South Sea Bonds 5 1.

12s, Bank 144. Bank Circulation 51. 12s. 6d. per Cent.

Premium. Million Bank 107 1 half. India 1go 1 half tor

the Opening. India Bonds 5s. 165. Premium. Royal

Assurance 96 3 4ths for the Opening. London Assurance

124 8ths. York Buildings 29 1 8th for Opening. Three

per Cent. Annuity 97 3 4ths for Ditto. Benefits 1710 8

3.4ths Years purehate. Blanks ditto 61. 3 8. per Set. Ne-

Vis and St. Chriit. Debent. 5 per Cent. Discount. English

Copper 31. 8s. Welch ditto 3 1. 1s. for Opening.

The Course of Exchange.

Amsterdam 34 10 Madrid 42 3°4ths

Ditto at fight 34 8 a7 Bitboa 41 7 8ths

Rotterdam 34 11 Leghorn se@5 8ths a1 half

Antwerp 35 6 Genoa 53 1 4th

Hamburg). 33 5 | Venice 48 1 half

Parisat fight 31 7.8ths Lisbon 5s. 5 d.

Bourdeaux ditto 31 thalf | Porto 5s. 5d. 3 8ths

Cadiz 42 1 half Dublin 11 1 4th.

Prices of Goods at Bear Key.

per Quarter per Quarter

Wheat ——-24 to 27 Hog Peas —- 14 to 26

Rye —— 13 to 14 Boiling Peas— 17 to 20

Barky — 12 to 146 } Pale Malt —- 16 to 20

Oats — 8 to 136 | Brown Malt—t5 to 18 6

Horie Beans 14 to 20 Tares —~— 20 to 25

Goals 27 s. to 28 5. per Chaldron.

Hops 1729 — 205. to 35s. per Hundred.

Hops 1730 - 35s. to Sos. per Hundred.

Rape Seed 111. to 121. per Lait.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

This Map is published,

Treatise concerning etcinal and immutable Morality

By RALPH CUDWORTHA, D. D. tumenly

Mafier of Chiift’s Cellcoge in Cauiyridge, Author of the

True IntelleCluat SyfPem of the Uriverse

WthaPREFACE by the Right Reverend Father in

God, Edward Loi! Bishop of Durhun.

Printal for Janes and Jol Koapton, at dic Crown in Se

Pau!’s Churci:-Yaru.

This Bap is publi,

With a curious Now F, ontifprece,

A Next and Coireét Edition of

GNORAMUS A COMEDY. As it was Aeted at

the Onive: tity of Camb. itze before King James |

To this Fiition is added the Fifth A&, as it is to ne A&ted

by the Kine’s Scholars at Westminster, on the eleventh of

'smuary next Together with the fevcial Prologues and

F pilogaes.

sinted and fold by the Booksellers of London and Weft-

ruinster.

To be SEEN,

In Berwick-street, Soho, at the Green Door oppoiite to the Chapel,

HE FIGURES of their present Majestrizs of Great Britain,

and che Rest of the Rovar FAMILY; repreiemted to the Line,

i: 2 New ComPosition, which far exceeds Wax: All vi them

compleat'y dreft. Bs ,

_ As hkewile in the fame Conpositiow, their MAayrsriés ct

France, the DauruiN, the three PrincessEs, the Duke de Bownr-

Bon, Prince of Conde, Cardinal Fuevay, &c. all biz as che Lite,

and dreft in Habirs given by chefe great Perfunages wut of their ie-

{peftive Warbrobes to the Artft, who was lately employ’d by his

mot Christian Majesty, aac wich his Leave copied them trom the

Lite; which have been seen, and lighiy applauded by cheir Majesties

ot Great Briain and the Royal Family.

To be seen from Nace in the Moruing till Nine ac Night.

Price Half a Crown.

LOOKS just Imported, and tw be had of N. Prevost and Company’

over aganlt Southampcon-Rrecc m ‘he Strand.

1. ISTOIRE de la Mere & du Fils. c’efta cire, de Marie de

Medicis, Femme du Grand Hen:y, & Mere de Louis X II

Koy ae France; contenant |’Ecac des Attares Pojitiques & Ecciefia-

Rtiques arrivees en France depuis & y compris l’an. 1616. juiquesa

la tin de 1619. par Fr. Eudes de Meaeray, Hiltosiograte de trancein

4:0, Amsterdam, 1730.

——Le meme Livre en 2 vol. 12°

N.B. This Book wever was published before. ;

2. Paraikeie deia Duétrino des Payens avec celle des Jesuites & de

la Bulle Unigenicus, fur i’Ecat de pure Nature, & fur les Fortes Na-

wrelles du Libre arbitre de i'tiomme. 8vo, Amf. 1731.

3. Cl. Aliant Sophifte varia Historia, cum notis iniegtis Conradi

Getneri, Joan. Schetheri, Tan. Fabri, Joachini Kubo, Tasch Peri-

zomii, & Jaterprecatione Latina Juitt Vuiteii, innumeris in locis

emenda a, cusante Abrahamo Gronovio, qui & fuas adnotaiones ad-

jecit. 2 vai. gt0. Lmed. Bat. 1. 31.

4+ Oevures de Clement Marot, Valet de Chambre de Francois I.

Roy de Fiance, revues fur plufieurs MSS, & fur plus de quarante

Ediuons; & augmentees tane de diveries Poefies vermables, que de

celles qu’on lui a@ fauliement aturibuees> avec les Ouveages de Jean

Marot Son Peie, ceux de Michel Marot Son Fils, & ies Pieces du

different de Clemeat avec Franeois Sagon: atcompagnees d'une Pre-

tace Hiftonque & d’Observacions Critiques. en 4 vol. m gio. & en 6

vol. 120, @ le Haye, 73+

y. Praxis Medica five Commenrarium in Aphorifmos de cognefcen-

dis & curandis moibis auctoce Hermanno boerhaves cum ejuldem

Hi ‘Ou Plintarum, 6vol. 20. 1728.

6. Frincifci Tuiredui, Compendium Theologiz Didaético -----

Bienchuz, ex Theologicorum noftrum Institcuaionibas The vlogicis

auctum & tihiteacum. 4:00. Amff. 731.

7» Dani lis Vink Amvcn tags Philologico-Medice, in quibus Me-

dicima a Servitute bberatur. 8vo. Trajedti ad Rhenmm, 17 30°

8. Aur. Corn. Ceifi de Medicina Lioti o@o brevioribas Rob, Con-

fain, If Cafauboni, alio:umque Scho'iis ac Locis par-llelis illu-

(tras Cura & Scudw Th. J. ab Almelveen. Edicio ultima prioribus

multo auctior & emendativ:. 2 vol. 8vo. Laugd, Bat. 1730.

9- Orbis Sacer & Protanus iiluftratus. Pars primain qua Dioecefeon,

Provinciai um & Meiropoleon, tum Eccletiafticarum, cum Civilium Diftri-

butio, ad norman. vegeris Noone Impertt Romani expiicatur, in

reliquis finguia Mundi Partes, Europa, Asia, Africa, America, ea-

rumque Provincie, Meiropoles, & Urbes describunwr: Opus Eccle-

fiattice, & pretanz Hift>ric, nec nun Geographiz studiolis apprime

uthe > Autore P, Francisco Orlandio, Ordims Pradicatoium, fol. Flo-

rentis 1728,

to. Euftachii Manfredii Bonon. Scientiatum insticuci Astronomi

de Annus inerrantivin Stellarum Aberrationibus, 3:0. ‘Boxonia# 1729.

11. Numifmata area feleSiorg maxuni Moduli e Muieo Pilane

olim Corrario. Venetiis, Jo. Bap. Aldritum, Grand in tol.

ta. Rerum [calicarum Scriptores @ Ant. Muratorius Tome 16. qui

taic | 18 vol.

N. B. The Catalogue of all the Pieces contained im this cmrions Colle-

fion are to be iad im the following Rook, Intitlea

Historia Literavia, Or, an Exa@ and Early Account of the most

saluable Books published ia the several Pirts ot Euwope. With a Ca-

talogue Of new Books imparted every Month.

Fioriferis mt apes in Saitibus omnia libant,

Omnia nos ttidem Lucret.

Tome I. with a compieat Index, in 8vo, London, 1730. And also

every Number fepasare.

A New History of England in Enghth and French for the Use of

Schocls, by Question and Answei, Exeraéted trom Mr de Rapin

‘Lhoyrat, 120.

This Dav is publrfhev,

(Price 258. 64.)

Hi FE Tasr® of ‘he Town: Of, a Guide to all Publick Diver-

fion*. viz

I Or Musick, O,cras, and Plays. Their Original, Progress, and

Improvement, and the Stage-Enreitainmere fully vindicated from the

Pxceptions of old Pryn, the Rev. Mr. Collier, Mr. Becford and Mr.

Liw.

If, Of Poetry, Sacred and Profane, A Proje& tor introducing

Scripcure-ftovies upon our Stage, and aAing them on Sundays and

Holy-days atcer Divine Service, as is customary in most police Parts

of Europe.

ILI. Of Dancing, Religious and Diamatical. RefleSions on this

Exercite, Publick and Piivare, with the ‘earned Bithe p Potter’s Sen-

timents thereon.

IV. Of the Mimes, Pantomimes and Chorufles of the Antients ;

and ot the Imitauiun of them in our modera Entercaaments atter

Plays.

V. Of Audiences, at our Theatrical Representations, their due Be-

haviour, and ot Car-Calls and other indecence Practices, concluding

wth Remarks on our ’retenders to Criticism.

Vi. OF Masquerades 5 Ecclehastical, Political, Civil and Military:

Their Antiquity, Ule and Abuse. Also of Riaotios, Alambiies aud

Henley’s Oratory

VIL. Ot the Athletic Sports of the Antientcs: Their Circus com-

pared wich our Bear Ga'den, and ther Giadiators with our Prize-

Fighters O1 Cock-fighting, Puppet-shews, Mountedanks, and

Auctions.

Printed, and Sold by the Booksellers of London and Westminster.

A

Tuk prbtithes,

The Third Edition of

TH E SPELLING DICTIONARY: Or, a Colleétion of af! ibe

common Wolds made use of in the English Tongue, carefully

compared with the Original Languages trom whence they are Cérivea,

aod marked as they are co be pronounced. By T. Dycue Pine

1s. 6d, Suld by R. Ware, at che Bible and Sua in Warwick-Lage,

at Amen Corner.

Also may be had at the same Place,

1. ‘The large House Bibles Folio wich the ix Maps of sacred Gag.

graphy, and a brief Concordance for che more easy tinding cuc 9g

the Places therein contained. By J. Downame, B. D.

Bound in Calt Leorher 1. 6s. pe Book

And with M., Srurc’s Curs at 2l. 5s. Ditto

On a fine Paper wuh Cuts 31. 38. Ditto

2. A Description of 300 Animals, viz. Beasts, Birds, Fishes, Ser.

pents and Bufects. With a particular Account ot the Vy hale: hthery

ExcraGed our of the best Aushors, and acapted co the Vie of ali Cy.

pacities, especially to allure Childrea to read. Mlivftrated with Co

per Places, whereon is curiously engraven, every Beast, Bird, Fith,

Serpent and Infe&, describ’d in the whole Book, price 25. 64.+"

3+ 'mpartial Churchman: Or, a fair and candid Representation o¢

the Excellency and Beauty of che Church of England, Togerher

with an earnett and affetionace Address to the Proceftent Didenters,

By Robert Warren, D.D. Price 35. 6d.

4. A Treatise of Archuedure, with Remarks and Obfrvations by

thac excellent Master thereof SEBASTIAN LE CLERC, Kner. of the

Empire, Detigner and Engraver of the Cabinet to the L.te French

Kin, and Member of the Academy of Arts and Sciences. Necef%a.

ry tor young People who would apply co that noble Art. Engiaved

- 181 Copper Plates. By John Sturt, Translated by Mr. Chambers,

rice 158.

$+ Trades{man’s Guide, Containing a Lift of all the Stage Coaches

and Carriers; with an Account of ail the Fairs and Market Tow ns

in England. Price 1s.

*

The belt Water in the Wortp,

So called by those who have experienced it to be fu, for the Ircw,

vF any Itching Humours.

[’ hath been taken inwardly tor the »1x@’ssEvin. Ic is good

to cure fore Eyes, or any orher Sores, Ulcers, or Fiftbla’s; it has

preserved several from having their Limbs cys off, when all otner

means have tailed.

The Price on the Bottle, One Shilling and Six Pence.

It is to be fold at Mr. Gomdge’s, at che Castle in Westminster-Hall;

Mr. Radford’s Toy Shop, atthe Roieand Crown over-against St Cle-

ment’s Church Yard in the Stramd, near Arundels Streete End, and

at Mrs. Raw’s at the Nerih-Raccance of the Royal-Exchange, over-

against Bartholomew-Lane.

N°. IV. Of the General History of Printine,

in Quarto,

By S. PAL MER, Print r.

Printed for and Sold by the Author at his Printing-House

in Bartholomew Close: As also by L. Cilliver at Homei’s

Head against St- Dunstan’s Church, Flcet-street, and Sold

by J. Koberts in Warwick-Lane.

Where may be had Numb I. If. and III.

This Number contains (among other Things) Memoirs of the

.. Learned Froser, Printer at Basi; of Jovocus Bavivs

Ascenstus, atLyons, Likewifean Account of the first Print-

ing at CoNsTanrixopre and Saronica above 200 years

fiace 5 a8 also the Hfiory of PotxcLor Works, @&c,

N.B. Numb. V and VI concludes the first Volume, and

makes an entire Work, The Second Volume ‘s ot a diffe-

rent nature, containing the Prathcal Art of Printing,

and wisl be put to Press when the first Volume is

finish’d: which will be as soon ag possible. *

|

The Celefiial Anodyne Tinchure: Or, The Great Pain-

Fafing Medicine,

am’d and approv’d of for its wone

HK derful and never-failing Success, ia

giving immediate Ease ami Kelict in all

manner of Pains, cither inward or out-

ward, and is the most certain Remedy in

the World tor a fure and speedy Cure

of the Cholick, and expelling W nds

Gripes and Pains in the Stomach, the

Pleurify, stitches or pains in the fide back, loins, or any

other parts Kheumatck A:lments, which cause pain and

dotor. Ic hath given ease to a Miracle, when all other Ree

medies have fail’d; In the Gravel and Stone in the Kid.

neys, it gives ease forchwiih, and brings them awav_to Ad-

miraiion, It also facilitates and causes a fpgedy Delity

in Child-birth. ’Tis no Q ack trifling thine) allure the

World with, byt a real and well-experienced Medicine, not

aéting by Stupefaétion (as Opiates) but by a friendly, bale

famick, and fubtile Nature, pacifying che most severe and

rerrible recking pains, and carrics off the cause, not by

purging, but by Tranf{piration, by Urine, or breaking Wind.

No Family ought to be without it; and used ouwardly it

cures Swellings, Aches, Pains, NumbnefS or Werkn{s ©

the Joints; ’tis excellent tor Cromps, and all other, aged

Infirinities, effi€ting Wonders in Agues, Fevers, Small-

pox, Xe,

No Family ought to be without it. ;

It is fold only by Mr. PARKER, Printer, at 5

House in Salishury-Court, or by such persons as he shall

depute, viz. at Mr. Parker’s, a Printer, in Rull Had Court,

Jewineltreer; at the White Gallon Por, 1 Chandler’s Shop

in Bandy-Leg-Walk, Southwark, and at Mr. Neal’s, 2 Toy’

shop over against the White Hart Inn :n_the Borough, at

Fighteen-pence a Botrle, with printet Directions; and, if re

quested, will be brought toany person, by the Hawker wa

fells his Penny Post. Sealed as above.

LONDON: Printed by A. Moore, for Captain Gulliver, near the Temple, where Letters and Advertisements are taken in:

also at the Rainbow Coffee-House in Cornhill, and Fobn’s Coffee-House in Sheer-Lane, near Temple-Bar.

[Price Two Pence.|

