The Gentleman's Magazine, Volume 1 — February, 1731

Exported from Wikisource on May 12, 2026

* * *

THE

Gentleman's Magazine:

Or, TRADER's

Monthly Intelligencer.

* * *

Number II. for FEBRUARY, 1731.

* * *

CONTAINING,

I. A VIEW of the Weekly Essays and Controversies, viz. Of Fashions, Eating, Luxury, Organists, Criticism, Taste, Logic, Manners, Celebacy, Marriage, Poor, Beggers, Justices, Informing Constables, National Customs, Grubstreet and Political Writers; and penal Laws against Jews.

II. Poetry, &c. A New Session of the Poets. A Winter's Thought. The Midsummer's Wish, by Mr. Duck. The Gossip's Tale. The Lady's Delight, a Riddle. The Gentleman's Aversion, another. Ralpho and Robin, a Dialogue. The House-keeper, a Tale.

III. Domestick Occurrences, &c. Births, Deaths, Marriages, Preferments, Casualties, Burials and Christenings in London.

IV. Prices of Goods, Stocks, Grain, Course of Exchange, and a List of Bankrupts.

V. Foreign Affairs.

VI. Books, &c. publish'd.

VII. Observations in Gardening and a List of Fairs for the Season.

With a TABLE of Contents.

* * *

By SYLVANUS URBAN of Aldermanbury, Gent.

* * *

Prodesse & Delectare.

* * *

The Third Edition.

* * *

CONTENTS of No. II.

for FEBRUARY.

OF Almanack-makers, 51

Church-musick ibid.

The Templer, a new Paper, 52

Liberty of the Press, 52, 53, 70

Remarks on Q. Eliz. Reign 53

—On the Hessian Troops, ib.

Of National Controversies 54

Thales' rational Philosophy ib.

Criticisms on Milton 55

Of Taste, Conversation 55, 56

Of Dress and Fashions 56, 57

Poetical Disputations 57, 58

Prevailing Humour, a Characteristick of the Times 58, 59

Advice to an Author ib.

Of Beggers 59, 60

Matrimony, and Celebacy 60

Reforming Constables 61

Customs of the Hottentots 62

Libels, Politeness in eating 63

Former Accomplishments ib.

Remarks on the Reign of K. James I. 64

Of modern Productions, Education, Sir Isaac Newton, and popular Discontents 64

Justices, political Hypocrisy 65

Emp. Maximilian, his usage of Peucer ib.

Comparison between English Politicians and Turkish 66

Animadversions on a Book call'd Harlequin Horace 68

Relation between the King's German Dominions, and his British Interests 67

Characteristick of the Authors of the Grubstreet Journal 68

Happiness, how obtain'd 68

Of Government 69

An old Lecher and a young Prostitute describ'd ib.

Faction and Defamation 69, 70

Poetry, viz. Session of the Poets 71

The Gentleman's Aversion, 72

A Winter's Thought. An Ode 73

The Midsummer Wish 74

The Gossip's Tale ibid.

Lady's Delight, a Riddle 75

A Bacchanalian Flight ib.

The House-keeper 76

Ralpho and Robin, a Dialogue ib.

Of Jews, and Judaism 77

Domestick Occurrences 78

Ships lost, and Casualties 81

Deaths of eminent Persons 82

Marriages and Promotions 84

Ecclesiastical Preferments 85

Bankrupts, and Monthly Bill of Mortality 86

Foreign Affairs 87

Substance of the Marquess de Castellar's Declaration ib.

Of Gov. Belcher's Speech ib.

Of Gov. Worsley's Speech to the Assembly of Barbadoes, and their Address 87, 88

Account of a new Colony to be establish'd in America 88

Fairs in March and April 89

Books publish'd 90, 91, 92

Observations in Gardening 93

Course of Exchange, Prices of Goods and Stocks 94

Note. This Index, not being Printed to the first Edition, is given away to those who may have bought it.

* * *

* * *

* * *

THE

Gentleman's Magazine:

FEBRUARY, 1731.

* * *

A View of the Weekly Disputes and Essays in this Month.

Grub-street Journal. Feb. 4. No.57.

Concordia discors. Luc.

THE Author of this Journal having (No. 51.) in a discourse read to the society, by Wm Bickerfaff, Esq; exposed the common Almanack-makers, by giving a Scheme of their widely differing predictions of the weather for the month of January, as therefore not founded on the rules of art, had subjoin'd and opposed to them Mr Bickerstaff's learned calculations, and call'd on his readers to attend the fulfilling of them: in this paper he takes notice of their exact completion, and sets Mr Bickerstaff's predictions for Feb. against those of 17 common Almanacks, that the reader may judge more easily who is in the right; promises to purfue the same method to the year's end, and a compleat Almanack for 1732 by that gentleman, under the title of, The Grub-street Almanack.

Next, a letter inserted from a correspondent, containing critical observations on Musick, particularly as performed by Organists in Churches, ironically remarks, that they zealously endeavour by the gaiety of their preformances to dissipate that drowsy disposition which good christians are apt to sink into on such occasions. For half an hour together they divert their auditors by scouring up and down the whole compass of the organ, and skipping from one subject to another, till they have given us a different air in every key of the Gamut.

Gives this further reason in defence of the organ-loft; that by this means the pretty gentlemen and fine ladies below, are reliev'd from the danger they were in of growing hideously dull, and an opportunity given them of displaying their fine tastes and rings.

Takes especial notice of their tuning the Psalm; for in the middle of a word, Mr Tweedledumdee forgets the tune, and entertains us with the scrap of a song, or a masquerade dance, to the confusion of the audience; when the next verse, perhaps of confession or deprecation, shall be introduced by Lillebolero, or Jumping Joan.

But their tip-top flourish is reserv'd for the farewel. Here they justly judge, that a pleasant touch is as necessary as a merry epilogue after a dull play; and acquit themselves so facetiously, that we are soon eas'd of any irksome impressions receiv'd from the pulpit.

Concludes, that Church-musick, if rightly manag'd, is capable of raising the noblest hints in the mind, and filling it with the most sublime and worthy conceptions; whilst by this means our pleasure and duty might be made to accompany one another; our virtue wou'd be improv'd in proportion to our delight; and a more vigorous and lively devotion created in the heart, than the best form of words without its assistance could effect.

From the Evening Post, Thursday, Feb. 4. No. 3362.

THE Proprietors of this antient paper, to oblige their readers, have added an entertainment called, The Templer, which being design'd for publick amusement, we think ourselves oblig'd to take notice of it, viz.

The Templer, No. 1.

BEgins with mentioning several difficulties that attend his undertaking, but desires the reader to suspend his judgment of the work for a time, and, according as he acquits himself to condemn or absolve him. Next, he gives an account of himself, says, he is nephew, by the mother's side, to the Templer, whom the Spectator mention'd as his intimate friend: that he was educated at the University, and arrived in town when his uncle was a member of that Club; he accompanied Sir Roger in his morning-walks, drank tea with Will. Honeycomb, and smoked a pipe with the Spectator himself.

On the dissolution of that society, his uncle, the Templer, betook himself to close study, but soon after quitted both business and town, and retired to his estate in the country, where he continued writing for his own amusement several essays, as subjects occasionally presented themselves: these he bestow'd on our author, to enable him to undertake a work of this kind, and intended him farther assistauce, but is since dead.

Promises more particulars of his own life and character, and concludes with an invitation to gentlemen of wit and capacity, to second his endeavours with their assistance.

The free-Briton, Thursday, February 4. No 62.

Farther considerations on the late proceedings against the agents of the Craftsman

THE Craftsman having blacken'd the acts of power, which had been exercis'd on his agents, as acts of oppression, the Free Briton in this paper, enters the lists with him in defence of the measures taken by the Government against him and them.

The Craftsman having admitted that the writers for the Government do not contend for any Act of Parliament to restrain the Liberty of the Press, but only for confining this Liberty to narrower bounds, our author allows his complaint to be just; for he insisted on confining every writer to truth, and debarring them from a latitude of lying, without which, he says, the Craftsman could not subsift a week longer.

The Craftsman says, that the privilege we enjoy of examining all matters of religion and government, would be of no advantage to us, if it was confined to panegyrick, and we were not allow'd the liberty of censuring men in power. But our author replies, that he only contends against the abuse of enquiry, by the introduction of defamatory lies.

He proceeds to answer the Craftsman's arguments relating to the opposition and difficulties which the treaty of Seville has met with. Says, that we have suffer'd nothing by delay; the Emperor is more embarassed, his troops wearied; his treasures exhausted; Italy loaded and oppressed; all which con tribute to make the treaty of Seville daily more practicable.

The current of advices having run very strong in favour of a general accommodation, the Craftsman publish'd his Hague-letter, in which he insinuated vile things of the ministry and their negotiations, for which he had no vouchers in any paper of intelligence, either foreign or domeftick, and without any foundation in the publick opinion. He first broach'd the scandal, and then makes it his justification that it obtained in publick; and this credulity is become the sanction of falsehood.

The Craftsman pretended to justify himself by saying, that he had only suggested and not asserted. But, says the Free Briton, At this rate we shou'd have a new method of lying, and falsehood might circulate by a sly reservation.

The Craftsman had quoted the King's speech to prove a tendency to an accommodation with the Emperor; but this will not justify him, for the King declares, That unanimity and joint concerted measures is the present case with him and all his allies.

The Craftsman, Saturday Feb. 6. No. 240.

A continuation of remarks on Q. Elizabeth's Reign, from the minutes of Mr. Oldcastle.

HE says, she consider'd herself Q. of a country separated from all others, except Scotland, and conducted herself accordingly.

This reign is an instance that an island may enjoy peace and prosperity while the continent is fill'd with alarms, and wasted by war. The means and objects born of defence and offence are different as they regard an island and the continent, according to their different situations. A navy is necessary to the former, but barrier towns, and standing armies to the latter.

An island has no business with the affairs of the continent, only as a friendly neighbour and a fair trader.

With respect to the continent, Q. Elizabeth made the fewest engagements she possibly could, nor mingled her interests or counsels with theirs, but did both with those of Scotland.

But since the union of the two kingdoms we are one nation, one government, and must have one common interest; and consequently 'tis in our power to take the entire advantage of our situation, and make ourselves be beloved and respected by those who would maintain the just balance of Europe, and be formidable to those who would break it.

Concludes with some reflections on free and arbitrary government, and says, that Q. Elizabeth never wanted power, was supported by the spirit of liberty, and overcame that of faction.

Fog's Journal, Sat. February 6. No. 124.

THIS Journal continues remarks on a pamphlet relating to the Hessian Troops, which, he grants, is not so scurrilous as other writings on the same side. Endeavours to refute several things advanced by the author; particularly his account of the additional forces rais'd by the allies in consequence of the treaty of Hanover, viz. that France increas'd her forces with 30,000 men, and put herself to a considerable expence in auxiliary stores; that in the convention made between the allies of Hanover and the Danes, it was agreed by France to take 12000 Danish troops into her pay, in case of a war; and that 8000 men were rais'd and added to the troops of Great Britain.

Next he confiders some reflections of the author upon the conduct of the imperial ministers; who however, he says, found means to bring the K. of Prussia off from the Hanover alliance, to unite with the Emperor, and also on several occasions to disappoint our good understanding with Russia; which Fog ironically observes did not happen by reason of any unskilfulness, want of knowledge, or address in our ministers; but that old father Time was in the imperial interest.

The London Journal, Sat. Feb. 6. No. 601.

Complains of the present method of managing national controversies, in which truth and decency are so little regarded, and such preference given to personal altercations. Allows, if the Craftsman has the right he claims of examining all matters of religion and government, it does not follow that he has a right to abuse the government.

The Craftsman had insisted that he had as much right to reason on supposition as Mr Osborne. He grants it in like cases, but not in this. Osborne had suppos'd, that one of our allies might insist upon the executing the treaty of Seville in a manner not consistent with the real interest of the other allies; or they might all agree to wait another year for the Emperor's consent; these suppositions were highly probable. On the contrary the Craftsman suppos'd, that we were going to make a treaty with the Emperor, which he asserted could not be done without perfidy and infraction of treaties, and violation of faith. This supposition was but barely probable, that there was any treaty on foot, and absolutely impossible to know what the treaty was, yet such a knowledge was necessary to support the Craftsman's charge of violating treaties, &c. Reason will allow to argue upon supposition in favour of a single person, or a kingdom, but never against them, especially from common report. The practice of the Greeks and Romans was different, who punish'd their subjects for publishing a piece of news pernicious and dishonourable to the common wealth, tho' true.

Orborne quotes the Craftsman as allowing that a reconciliation at Vienna is the most eligible, and most desirable measure, but expressing his apprehensions that it may be attended with great difficulties; and querying, Whether it was not more practicable before the Treaty of Seville was concluded? Osborn replies, No; a way must first be found to divide the Emperor and Spain, which was effected by the treaty of Seville.

Read's Journal, Sat. Feb. 6. No. 307.

OBserves first, that the notion of the passions and desires of mankind being naturally vicious, is absurd, and a high reflection on the wisdom of our Creator; they are good or bad as more or less regulated by reason.

Says, 'tis ridiculous and wicked to go to astrologers to enquire into future events; yet adds, that the desire of prying into futurity, is a principle, if well applied, highly commendable.

Providence acts by second causes; and the same events have been produced by the same means in all ages.

Thales had studied rational philosophy, the course of nature, and the influence of the heavenly bodies; but his learning was derided, because it brought him no money. He refuted this error thus: Foreseeing that olives would be blasted the next year, he preserved a great quantity, which in the scarcity enrich'd him.

An inattention to the regular course of things, cannot have but a suitable event.

The author approves the saying of Jezebel to Jehu,—Had Zimri peace, who slew his master?

The government of France was once almost as free as ours; but Lewis XI. and succeeding Princes, thought their prerogative lessen'd by a dependance on the law, wherefore contriving to abolish it, faction increased upon 'em, and they were embarassed with seditions.

The Ld Morton in Scotland invented a new engine to cut off traytors head's called a Maiden, and suffer'd by it himself.

The Ld Strafford inveighed vehemently against former ministers, and the arguments he us'd were turn'd against him with such advantage, as to take off his head.

Concludes with making this last a general maxim.

The Traveller, Feb. 6. No. 22.

Observations on an edition of Milton, publish'd in the Year 1729.

THE restoring of the text of a valuable author to its original sense and reading, is a work of merit, if not undertaken by one unequal to such a task. The Traveller, in this paper, has pointed out a few specimens of the ignorance, want of taste, and silly officiousness of Mr. Fenton in his corrections of Milton, as in the lines following,

And temperate vapours bland, which th' only found

Of Leaves and fuming Rills (Aurora's Fan)

Lightly dispers'd———

Injudiciously alter'd by the editor thus:

And temperate vapours bland from fuming Rills,

Which the only found of leaves Aurora's Fan)

In the sixth Book,

———this day will pour down

If I conjecture ought!

The editor would read,

If I conjecture right

This is a trifling criticism, and not warranted by any copies.

In the tenth Book Adam says,

O! woods, O! fountains, hillocks, dales, and bow'rs.

Perhaps it should be, says the editor,

Hills, ricks, &c.

This is ridiculous.

In the 11th Book, Adam speaking of the Rainbow says,

But say, what mean those colour'd Streaks in Heav'n,

Distended, at the Brow of God appear'd?

Mr. Fenton says, perhaps it should be read Bow.

This remark shows more pedantry than judgment, and loses the beauty of the word, which carries so grand an image with it.

All the various readings of this editor are either mean or trifling, wherefore he laments the privilege that rich booksellers have of putting it in the power of any ignorant editor to murder the finest authors.

The Weekly Register, Sat. Feb. 6. No: 43.

An Essay on TASTE in general.

TAste is a peculiar relish for an agreeable object, by judiciously distinguishing its beauties; is founded on truth, or verisimilitude at least; and is acquired by toil and study, which is the reason so few are possessed of it. Nothing is so common as the affectation of, nor any thing so seldom found as Taste. Bad principles of education; an ill choice of acquaintance, the ignorance of instructors, and our prejudices, all contribute to the confirmation of this evil. So much depends on a true Taste, with regard to eloquence, and even morality, that no one can be properly stil'd a gentleman who takes not every opportunity to enrich his own capacity, and settle the elements of Taste, which he may improve at leisure. It heightens every science, and is the polish of every virtue; the friend of society, and the guide to knowledge; 'tis the improvement of pleasure, and the test of merit; it enlarges the circle of enjoyment, and refines upon happiness; it distinguishes beauty, and detects error; it obliges us to behave with decency and elegance, and quickens our attention to the good qualities of others: in a word, 'tis the assemblage of all propriety, and the centre of all that's aimiable.

Truth and beauty include all excellence, and, with their opposites, are the objects of cenfure and admiration. The rightly distinguishing of them is the proof of a good Taste, to acquire which we must be impartial in our enquiry, cool in our judgment, quick to apprehend, and ready to determine what is an error, and what a beauty. Beauties have been censured, thro' the want of understanding, and errors extoll'd, because in the masque of truth.

Observes further, that a good Taste is not confin'd only to writings, but extends to painting and sculpture; comprehends the whole circle of civility and good manners, and regulates life and conduct as well as theory and speculation: but now a days, instead of it, pertness passes for wit; dulness for decorum; lewdness for humour; dissimulation for honour; and vanity for every accomplishment.

Says, that the entertainments on the stage and the behaviour of the pit, are too strong proofs of the degeneracy of Taste since Mr. Addison's time, The gaming-table, and the royal diversion at New-market, are the ambition of the majority; and the rest prefer Senesino to Shakespear, as the highest proof of modern politeness.

The Templer Sat. Feb. 6, No. 2.

Tom's Coffee-house Covent Garden.

THE Templer says, he constantly frequents this place for the sake of the agreeable mixture of good company that meet there.———the Wit, the Politician, and the Beau, may be severally entertained in their respective ways.

Describes the characters and conversation of Ned Courtal, and Marforio. Courtal is a man of gallantry and pleasure; intrigue dress and diversions are his chief occupations; delights in musick and is a subscriber to the opera. Marforio is a man of learning, penetration and sagacity; with an exactness of taste, and receives no pleasure unwarranted by his judgment, and has no ear for musick; attacks Courtal on his favourite diversion the opera. Says, nothing is so absurd or unnatural as a drama set to musick; that 'tis monstrous to have all manner of persons, in all situations, perpetually accompanied with the regular responses of symphony; is sick to see a Cæsar, a Scipio, or an Alexander, intent upon crochets, to keep in with the fiddles, and come well off at a close.

To this Courtal replies, that sense has nothing to do at an opera; musick is the business, and nothing more is expected there; and that one may as well find fault with a fine woman for not understanding Mathematicks, or a courtier for not speaking Greek. That musick is as expressive as words, and quotes Dryden, who tells us of a musician, who, by his harmony, could command every passion of the mind; that if he is wrong in his notion, he had rather be happy with the foolish, than discontented with the wise; and that refining too much upon pleasure, destroys it.

The Templer moderates this dispute, by questioning whether a little sense would be prejudicial to the sound of an instrument; and if notes by themselves have that force of expression, might they not receive an additional advantage from a sett of well-chosen words?

* * *

The Grubstret Journal, February 11. No. 58.

BY the fashion, figure, and colour of the cloaths, we may form a judgment of the sentiments and qualities of the mind.

Fantasticalness in dress, if introduced by a foreign nation, presages the bringing in the politicks and religion of that nation. Political and religious garments nearly resemble the artificial, being as often changed as the weather suits.

About the latter-end of Queen Anne's reign, a rev. gentleman wrote a treatise call'd, A farewel to French kicks, of which our Journalist gives his readers an abridgment. The author of it dissuades his countrymen from the use of French fashions, since we have a right, power and genius to supply our selves. The imitation of modes, he says, is a tribute paid to some virtue; as to valour, beauty, or to a superior skill in arts and sciences. As to valour the French claimed no preheminence over us, the victories we had obtain'd at that time being too fresh in their memories. The Britons have distinguish'd themselves in this particular. We us'd the Ruff and Fardingal while the Spaniards were highest in reputation; and when France, by our assistance, prevail'd over 'em, we very complaisantly pursued the French thro' many extravagant varieties: but when a war became necessary with France, we disus'd their exotick modes, and our fashions were commodious and graceful.

Beauty, he reckons, as the next quality in directing the modes, which he describes as a sweet reflexion of light, arising from the connexion and aptitude of the parts. Two sorts of it, of national and universal. As to the first, gives a description of a beauty peculiarly French, as to the second, points out the Britons. Opposes a certain likeness, or figure among the French to the beautiful of either kind, which he represents as the symbol of capering, with the knees touching, and the ankles a foot and a half distance from one another, with a broad codebeck, an immense peruke, and an old lac'd coat.

A third quality which influences the modes, is a superior skill in arts and sciences. Depreciates the French poetry, eloquence, knowledge in medals, musick and painting, when compared with the inimitable performances of other nations.

The author proceeds to consider some pleas made in behalf of the French. First as to modes, that they have ever excell'd us in a copiousness and variety of fancy. This is to be imputed to the encouragement given to French taylors, who are priviledg'd with inscribing a new-fashion'd garment to a great man, as an author does a book. Another plea is the civility of the French. To which 'tis answer'd, that they show it when we praise their country, and disregard or undervalue our own. Their third plea is the cheapness of their workmanship: the reason of which is, our workmen find it difficult exactly to imitate the French; as they do to imitate us. Their last plea is, that they exceed all others in vivacity of Temper. This is allow'd, if signifying no more than an impertinent alertness.

The author goes on to make some remarks upon dress, which respect either the head or the body. The attire of the head is either natural, or such as seems so; or additional. The antients used to signify strength by short, bristly hair and effeminacy by long. The French, on the contrary, dress the man in the longest hair, and the woman with hardly any. Allows the French to have succeeded in the female head-dress. Says, there cannot be a better likeness of a Magdalen than a French lady in a state of compunction.

The attire of the body is purely additional.

In the last place takes notice of the qualities requisite to set off dress; such as vivacity in conversation, without levity or impertinence; a beautiful aspect; a just stature, and a genius to dispose the habit according to its proper attitude.

The Templer, Tuesday, February 9. No. 3.

——— ——— Sic

Ut quimus, aiunt, quando ut volumus non licet.

BEgins with observing, that treatises have been wrote concerning rules of argumentation, for the use of combatants in theological, political, or philosophical controversies, but never met with any Logick calculated for the service of poetical disputants.

Says, that argument has nothing to do with taste and perception. Controversies in poetry commonly arise more from the consideration that the merit of a piece is unquestionable, than that it is dubious. A poet, undeniably superior, excites the jealousy of his brethren, who, not able to rife to his heighth, would bring him down to a level with themselves; so, the poet, not his performance, occasions the disputes: that, in these cafes, the wit lying all on one side, without some extrinsical helps on the other, must inevitably bear all down before it. The arguments therefore on these occasions are of two kinds, such as relate to the person, or the character of the antagonist. The first is deduced from the topick of the cudgel, and called argumentum bacillinum. This he owns, is not always successful, because an adversary does not always submit to such correction, and the law may shew its resentment.

Another method may be used, that is, of turning the person into ridicule, and exposing his deformity, or natural imperfections, which in a figurative sense may be called threshing.

As to character, the surest way is to track the most private parts of it. If this do's not do, we may expose him to contempt, by examining into his birth and family, and make him the son of a Parish-Clerk, a Popish-Priest, Pettifogger, an Exciseman, or a Tinker, or Filius populi, which signifies that he had no father at all.

Poverty is another topick, which entitles the bearer of it to contempt. But observes, that this weapon in poetical hands may be apt to recoil.

If these attacks should fail, his name may be tortur'd by anagrams, acrosticks, or derided in puns, quibbles, and conundrums.

Grecian Coffee-houfe, Feb. 8.

Takes notice of the srange fondness the world has for a new humour, which they are never tired of till it surfeits. Instances in the Beggar's Opera, and the inundation of ballad-opera's that succeeded it. Tragedies and comedies sink in esteem, and all the play-houses subsist by Ballads and Harlequins. This custom of jading a humour is the high-road to absurdity and folly. When the fancy of verses in burlesque first began in France, it grew to such a heighth, that a book was printed, entitled, La passion de notre Sauveur en vers burlesque.

The Templer, Feb. 16. No. 4.

COmmunicates a letter from Philocœnus, advising the Templer to treat of the excellence, beauty, dignity, pleasure and happiness of virtue.

Observes, that as in particular persons, so with regard to the gross of mankind, in every age there prevail some certain disposition or humour that possesses the minds of the majority, and becomes the characteristick of the times.

In the days of our Norman ancestors the Taste in vogue was eating and drinking, Hospitality was politeness, and an open house as great a distinction of honour, as now a coach and six with half a score liveries.

In the succeeding time the love of arms became the prevailing humour. The care of the beau was in brightening his armour; the management of the lance made way to the heart of the fair; and tilts, justs and tournaments supply'd the place of plays, of operas and masquerades.

At the reformation the taste of the age was turned toward learning. Ladies read Horace, and courtiers understood the classicks; wits study'd grammar, and kings became authors.

In Oliver's time we became a nation of saints. The way to esteem and respect was to give proofs of being regenerate; the judge, general, minister and beau were alike obliged to be gifted in prayer; and all Affairs trivial or serious, publick or private, were transacted in the Name of the Lord.

Upon the Restoration, Wit and Intrigue usurp'd the Dominion. Ministers of State became Wits, and Wits Ministers; a Play was more regarded than a Treaty of Peace, and keeping a balance with a set of Mistresses of greater consequence than the Tranquillity of Europe.

Something of each of these humours we still retain, but the reigning taste lies towards Avarice and Luxury. Riches are Merit; an Estate Learning and South Sea Stock, Wit. Want is the only Folly, and Poverty the only Vice. Concludes with advising the Templer to pick and cull out the most select passages from learned Authors to embelish his Work.

The Templer thanks his Correspondent, and gives us a specimen:

Eudamidas of Corinth, had an intimate friendship with Charixenus, and Aretheus. He was poor, they rich; he made his Will and bequeathed to Aretheus the maintenance and support of his Mother in her old Age; to Charixenus, the marriage of his Daughter, with a suitable Portion; that if either of the said Legatees should die, the whole to devolve to the survivor. At his death the Executors readily accepting their respective Legacies, and discharg'd their Trust to admiration.

The Templer, Feb. 13. No. 5.

THE Temple, he says, is convenient for two of the most opposite sorts of people; those who have the most, and those who have the least to do. These Societies were instituted; to serve as Colleges for Students and professors of the Law, tho' now inhabited by such as have no business at all. Here a Poet and a Pleader, a Beau and a Counsellor, a Rake and a Serjeant, dwell together in the same Stair Case, without ever knowing, or perhaps seeing one another.

These Reasons induced the Templer to reside here, as the most retir'd. His Family consists of an old Servant, a Laundress, and an old tabby Cat. Thus he is a kind of Philosopher in practice, and a Man of Business in Theory; and tho' he is neither Lawyer, Physician, Statesman, or Divine, yet, as it falls in his way, may make observations on each of those Professions. Cautions his readers to be careful of mistaking his Name, and that he is a Lawyer only in Theory, and a Templer in nothing but residence.

Tom's Coffee house Covent Garden.

Gives an account of a conversation which he had with Marforio, and of his advising him to enlarge his design, so as to comprehend all that may relate to the improvement of Taste and Politeness in Men or Writings, Characters and Passions, Vice, Folly and Dress; whether in the Closet of the Beau, or the Assemblies of the Ladies.―Here Ned Courtal put in, and bid him beware how he was misled into any attempts against the Ladies, for,

All that they approve is sweet,

And all is senfe that they repeat.

London Journal, Saturday, Feb. 13. No. 602.

IS a Letter from Givicus, congratulating Mr. Osborne on the service he had doen his Country by defending the Administration against the attempts of artful and wicked Men, and desiring him to suspect his Labours of that kind for the present, in behalf of another publick spirited design.

The subject of his Discourse is the multitude of Beggers, and the many Villanies and Robberies committed in this City; the threats of Incendiaries, and those threats actually executed: Boys of 7 or 8 years old, taken in robing a Shop; and some of 13 or 14, robbing in the Streets.

A few years since, London was as remarkable for the safety of its Inhabitants, as it is now notorious for the danger Persons are exposed to who walk the Streets after ten at Night. Imputes the cause of these Evils to the number of our Poor, which he divides into two Classes. First, those who are absolutely incapable of working. Secondly, those who are able, but not willing. The first sort are real Objects of Charity, but ought not to be suffered to wander the Streets, exposing their distorted Limbs, and filthy Sores, such fights being frequently attended with the worst consequences to Women with Child.

The second sort of Poor, who are able to work but not willing, are very numerous, and to them, in a great measure, are owing the many Villanies daily committed in the City.

In Paris not a Begger is to be seen. Recommends the Practice of the People call'd Quakers, who maintain none of their Poor in Idleness that are able to work, and suffer none to want that are helpless.

For a Remedy proposes two Methods. First, to oblige the able bodied Poor to Industry. Secondly, to bring up their Children to Labour, not to Learning; and to invent such Punishment for Criminals as may reclaim the Offender, if the Crime is not capital. But the present Punishment for capital Offences has so little solemnity in the manner of it, that it often appears more like a mob-triumph than an execution.

The Universal Spectator, Saturday Feb. 13.

INtroduces his Discourse with observing that a general Neglect, or rather Contempt of Matrimony prevails amongst us, to the great prejudice of the whole Nation; which he illustrates with the humble Petition of Rachel Wishfal, Spinster, Deborah Sprightly, single Woman, Susanna Lovemore, Widow, and 30,000 others, on behalf of themselves, and all the Virgins, Spinsters, Single women, and Widows in Great Britain,

Shewing,

That a multitude of People is the riches and security of a Kingdom; that the means of procuring them has ever been by Matrimony; that the Petitioners are not only duly qualified, but ready to discharge the Duties of it, and thereby enrich their Country: But thro' the neglect and avarice of the Man, who enjoy the sole privilege of professing Love, and proposing Matrimony, are, to their sorrow, left wholly unserviceable to their King and Country; and besides are under great uneasiness of mind for not fulfilling the first command, Increase and Multiply.

The Petitioners therefore desire, Mr. Spectator general to take their case into consideration, and propose some Method to the King and Parliament for their relief.

From this Petition the Spectator takes occasion to observe, that, at a moderate computation, there are, at least, 80,000 Females ripe, and fit for Marriage, in England only; supposes that if but one half of these should prove fruitful, what a noble Recruit would it be for all the Exigencies of State; and recommends it to the Administration as a good piece of Policy to find Husbands for all the Women.

He informs us from History what swarms of Goths and Vandals, Hun, Tartars, Scythians, and other Nations, pour'd in from the North and Eastern Parts, and over ran all Europe; says, this surprising increase of People was owing to the wise management of the Women; for as soon as ever they were fit for Marriage, Husbands were allotted for them, and they were employ'd constantly in breeding for the good of their Country.

A Man among the Jews was exempted from the Wars a whole year after he was married; and nothing was more common among the Romans than for their Censors to impose a heavy fine upon old Batchelors. They highly honour'd Matrimony in giving the precedence to Magistrates who had the greatest number of Children, and several other Privileges.

Proposes to the Legislature, to enact some Laws to discountenance Celebacy, particularly one to disqualify unmarried Men from holding any Post of Honour, Trust, or Profit, or sitting in either House of Parliament, but in every Parish be oblig'd to serve the Offices of Scavenger and Constable, and nightly keep Watch and Ward about the Houses of married People: That every single Man of the Age of 25, or upwards, on or before the first day of May next, fix his choice on some Woman to be his Wife, on the forfeiture of 10l. then, and 10l. for every year he continues so; exempts those who have not a yearly income of 100l. entire in Estate or Business; and likewise such who can produce Certificates of their inability, or of having suffer'd a refusal from their Mistresses for the space of one whole Year before. That the privilege of Courtship be indulg'd to both Sexes; and that the Man declining to marry the Woman so making known her inclination, unless he be under some prior Engagement, or Inability, shall be deem'd a Batchelor convict, and be fined 10l. That half of the Money so raised, be given as a Reward to such who have the most numerous Offspring, and the other half be apply'd for the support of those who marry purely for Love, and are unprovided of a sufficient Maintenance. [In Answer to this Journal came out the Batchelor's Recantation, &c. Pr. 6 d.

The Craftsman, Saturday, Feb. 13. No. 21.

Contains a Letter from John Freshman, an Oxford Scholar, just arriv'd in town, who wonders that Mr. D'anvers should take the trouble of answering such a stupid old Novice as Mr. Osborne, or such an impertinent young Jackanapes as Mr. Walsingham, and in a formal way advises him to leave these trifling Adversaries to the correction of their equals; so takes up the Cudgels himself: But this Discourse consisting more of Invectives than Argument, we imagin'd our readers would not be pleas'd with such personal altercations.

The Weekly Register, February, 13. No. 44.

DEclares his surprize at the abuses some Gentlemen have met with from reforming Constables. Says, 'tis something like destroying Hereticks for the sake of Religion, and dragooning Men out of their Peace in this World for the sake of their Happiness in another; and adds, that they execute their small power in such a manner as wou'd puzzle a Jury to distinguish it from the insolence of an Highwayman, or the malice of an Assassin.

Agrees, that 'tis the indispensible duty of every Man to conform to the Laws of the Country, yet don't understand that our Constitution allows a set of Ruffians to break into private Companies, and hurry Gentlemen before a Magistrate on a bare suspicion of being criminal; to be committed to Prison over Night, at discretion, only to be discharg'd in the Morning. Grants, that Power is necessary for the Peace of the Community; but no pretence will excuse the least deviation from right and justice.

Observes, that all penal Institutions are intended to remedy a greater Evil; but if the ill consequences are stronger than the Benefits they occasion, they are void of course. Such is the case here; the Design of it was good, but has been perverted to bad uses, of which he enumerates many. Says, a Magistrate is the Mouth of the Law, and if he wilfully errs, is as liable to be prosecuted as the Wretch he condemns, Does not intend to affront the good Magistrate, who, on the contrary, will rejoice to see the Liberties of Mankind asserted, and be ready to engage in the same Cause.

The Grubstreet Journal, Thursday, Feb. 18. No. 59.

MR. Bavius clears up a Passage in an Epigram inserted in one of his former Journals, which had offended some of his Readers. The line referr'd to is this;

These shou'd be tump'd, duck'd, pillory'd, piss'd, and sh———t on.

This, he says, is so far from a reflection, that it is a complement paid to the Gentlemen of their Society, and marks of Honour given their Members. To prove this, he quotes Kolben's Account of the Cape of Good Hope, and the Custom of the Hottentots initiating a Youth into Manhood, which is in this manner: First, they roundly bedaub him with fat and soot, after which the oldest Man among them pisses with great vigour all over him, which the Youth receives with an eager care; and making furrows with his long Nails in the fat upon his Body, rubs and mixes the piss with the fat. When the old Fellow has dribbled upon him to the last drop, he felicitates him upon the Honour that is done him, and crowns him with many Benedictions which he utters aloud. Then is the young Fellow proclaim'd a Man. The same kind of Honour is made part of the marriage Ceremony, and the Priest pisses upon the Bridegroom and Bride alternately till his whole stock of Urine is exhausted, and then wishes them joy.

They likewise confer the Honour of Knighthood in much the same manner. One of their Chiefs is deputed to perform the Ceremony, which he does by pissing on him from head to foot; the more Piss the more Honour. Then is the Hero install'd, Knight of the Order of the Piss.

This Ceremony of pissing is again perform'd at their Funerals. Two old Fellows, Friends or Relations of the deceas'd, piss each upon all the Company round 'em, which is receiv'd with the greatest eagerness and veneration.

Concludes with a modern instance of a Rev. Divine, about 20 years ago, who was so highly esteem'd by the fair Sex, that they had their Chamber pots adorn'd with his Picture.

The London Journal, Sat. Feb. 20, No. 603.

THIS Journal is in answer to the Craftsman, No. 241. sign'd Freshman. After having rally'd the Authors of the Craftsman, for their manner of treating their Adversaries with personal Invectives, Mr. Osborne proceeds in reply to Mr. Freshman.

But the Arguments, he here uses, being little more than a recapitulation of the reasons he had before urged, p. 54. we refer our readers thereto.

Universal Spectator, Feb. 20.

IN this Paper the Author treats of good Eating, a fault, he says, the English are much addicted to. Observes, that till the Flood Mankind had never tasted Flesh, which by many learned Men is reckon'd an unnatural Food: But since the contrary Custom has prevail'd he complies with it, but advises us not to be cruel in its death; nor curious in dressing it. Complains of running a red hot spit through a living Sow, to render the flesh more juicy and sweet, of bruising the Paps of the same Animal when alive, to make it tender; of roasting Lobsters alive, and whipping Pigs to death.

As to the dressing part, he says, the daintiness of our Appetites has made cookery a Science, and the expences of a prety Tradesmen's Kitchen sufficient to have maintain'd the hospitality of an old English 'Efquire.

To this he adds, that nothing contributes so much to the numerous tribe of Pains and Diseases as the Vice of our eating; it dulls the rational Faculties, and oppresses the motions of the Soul.

Concludes with recounting the advantages of the virtue opposite to this Vice. That Lycurgus oblig'd all the Citizens of Sparta to eat in publick, forbad all Seasonings and Sauces, and did his utmost to prevent Luxury. That the Romans continu'd their grandeur till tainted with this Vice; and that among them to have eat three times a day, was a thing prodigious. That Seneca, tho' worth Millions, was content with a crust of Bread and a draught of Water. And lastly, that as an instance of the Virtue and Vice, Lewis Cornaro, a Venetian, in his Youth was excessively gluttonous, till nature was no longer able to support it, or Physick to supply help; he betook himself to a steady habit of Temperance, by which he recover'd his health, and liv'd to an immense Age.

The Free Brton, Feb. 18. No. 64.

OBserves, that the Authors of the Craftsman have first raised an out-cry against the Administration, and from thence argue, that the Administration is Evil because of that out-cry. Agrees with the Craftsman, that the Reign of Q. Elizabeth is one of the most shining Periods in the English History; but even then there were murmurs and loud outcries against the governing Powers. Libels were written, but are sunk with their Authors into oblivion, except one taken notice of in the writings of the Ld Bacon, where we have a small treatise entitl'd, Observations on a Libel publis'd, anno 1592. The intent of this Libel was to represent the Kingdom in a state of Trouble and Adversity through the weakness or wickedness of the Ministry.

His Lordship acknowledges that the Ld Burleigh was privy to his own Vindication, and was willing that the slanders raised against him might not be passed over in silence.

The Ld Bacon observes, that a Man is not to regard what Libellers affirm or hold; but what they would convey: Then goes on to show what an extravagant and incredible conceit it is, to imagine that one Counsellor shou'd be able to direct all the Actions of State, that had passed during the Queen's whole Reign, or that he was able to make all the World his Instrument; altho' the same thing is now suggested by the Craftsman. Another Artifice in that Libeller, was in magnifying the Strength and Multitude of the Enemies of the State. This method of raifing Disaffection against the Government, says our Author, is exactly copy'd by the Craftsman now.

Again, the ancient Libeller exclaims against the Lord Burleigh for bringing his Son Sir Robert Cecil to be of the Council, who had neither Wit nor Experience (a Calumny); the Craftsman in the same manner reviles the present Ministry for employing their Relations, whom he represents (as falsely) to be the errantest Blunderers and Ideots the World ever saw.

The Templer, Feb. 20. No. 6.

THE Subject that the Templer treats of in this Paper, is the folly of boasting what a Person was formerly, who is of no use at present. Illustrates this in several examples of his acquaintance, who formerly were celebrated for their Knowledge in divers Arts and Sciences, who at present are entirely ignorant of all.

Among the fair Sex, he says, there were numbers who were good for something formerly. Acantha, formerly excell'd in dancing; Melintha was famous for Complexion; Dictiana had the finest Shape; but at present, neither of them has the least pretence to either. Obadiah Greenkat, he says, reckons among his Acquaintance ten quondam Raphaels, and as many Phidiases, five Archimedeses, three Homers, and two Amphions, who have out liv'd their knowledge, and at present know nothing of Painting, Scripture, Architecture, Geometry, Poetry, or Musick.

Concludes with a Letter from a Correspondent who calls himself Nestor, who gives an account of the vast progress he made in his Youth in all parts of Learning, and his readiness in attaining every Science; but having retir'd into the Country, and forgot all, desires the privilege of telling what he was, and not what he is.

Craftsman, Feb. 20. No. 242.

HAving in his Paper No. 240, finished his Remarks on the Reign of Q. Elizabeth, in this confiders the management of Affairs under K. James I. Takes notice, that on his accession to the Throne of England, he had the advantage of the example of his Predecessor; that Experience as well as Reason pointed out to him the sole Principle on which he could safely establish his Government, but that he paid as little Regard to her Example, as he did to her Memory; that he seem'd to expect the Love, and demand the Obedience of his Subjects, meerly because he was King; that he pursu'd a particular, separate Interest of his own, whilst be neglected a Union with his People, which he made impracticable by transgressing the bounds prescrib'd him by our Constitution. Interest and Duty, he says, are indivisibly united, and that he who sins against one, sins against the other. Concludes with promising to be more particular in his Remarks another time.

Read's Journal, Feb. 20. No. 309.

HIS Correspondent Crato begins his Letter with confessing himself an Enemy to the unmeaning Productions of modern Authors.

Finds fault with the present Methods of educating young Gentlemen at a Boarding School, where the two chief branches of Knowledge inculcated are French and Dancing.

That considering the prevailing sentiments of the times, he is surpriz'd to find that a Medal has been struck at the Tower in Honour of Sir Isaac Newton.

He proceeds to draw an Encomium on the Abilities of this great Man, his vast Genius and Capacity for the Mathematicks, and unbounded knowledge in the Principles of things, and Phænomena of Nature. Concludes with part of a Poem in his Praise, as follows.

When from the pow'rful fiat of a God,

From shapeless nothing, and a dark Abode,

Nature new born did at his Word arise,

These shining Lamps, and yon expanded Skies,

Then Man was dropt on this capacious Ball,

Large is it felt, a Point unto it all;

Hence in a Choir does the Creation move,

From Plants below, to spacious Orbs above.

Of old, what Ægypt and Arabia taught,

And what learn'd Greece to more perfection brought,

Compriz'd in Newton, in his Works we trace,

All these which his superior Notions grace.

Nature her self to him resigns the Field,

From him her Secrets are no more conceal'd.

Fog's Journal, Sat. Feb. 20. No. 126.

IN this Journal Fog treats of popular Discontents, which Parasites, he says, maintain, are inseparable from good Government.―Tells us from Machiavel, That the Multitude is generally more judicious than Princes themselves, especially in the choice of Favourites. Quotes the translator of Tacitus, who says, That when a just Administation is once settled, and become familiar to the People, and no violent Innovations attempted, they will not be apt to disturb it, or wish it ill; that they are slow to resist, and bare a thousand hardships before they return one. That 'tis a miserable infatuation of Men in Power, to push that Power, and the People's patience so far as either will go, and leave no room for a retreat. That Men in limited Authority are apt to covet more, and when they have gain'd more, to take all.―The People, who aim chiefly at Protection and Security, are content to keep what they have, nor seek to interfere in Matters of Power, till Power has attempted to rob them of Liberty and Right. Lastly, That perhaps the People are accounted bad, for adhering stubbornly to their Liberties and Laws; that to rail on them for this, is to make them a high Complement and a severe contumely upon their Governors, namely, that they would be Oppressors, but their People are too virtuous and brave to let them.

The Weekly Register, Sat. Feb. 10. No. 49.

THE Register, after having set forth the Duty and Authority of a good Justice of the Peace, and given a particular of the great Good and many Benefits that may be justly expected from his superior Knowledge and Power, observes, there is such a thing as political Hypocrisy, as well as Religious. Remembers, that some time ago the People of Ireland detected a nest of these political Hypocrites; a set of Justices was prosecuted there for trespassing on their Authority. Hence the Name of a Justice was as formidable as that of an Inquisition, and as contemptible as that of a Bailiff.

Wishes such a Circumstance may never be ours; but if it should, he would call upon all the Rights of a Briton to his assistance; and, if in vain, would bewail the Constitution he cou'd not defend.

Concludes with saying, that the most effectual way to reform the Community, and do Honour to the Magistracy together, would be to distinguish Men of Education, Fortune and Integrity, by Commissions: Men who from a Love of their Country, would accept of the Employ, and discharge it in a manner suitable to that Principle; so the dignity of the Bench would be maintain'd, and a Justice of Peace, be but a more significant Name for a Man of Honour.

The Traveller, Saturday, Feb. 10. No. 23.

MAkes some Remarks on two Passages in a Pamphlet called, The Case of the Hessian Forces, &c. The first of which, That it is extreamly probably the introduction of six thousand Spaniards into Italy, will be follow'd by Invasions on the Emperor's Dominions, he denies, and says, that common Policy would teach Don Carlos, not to kindle a War where he is to establish his Throne. The second is, where the Author speaks of the Duty of the Elector of Hanover, and the Prince of Hesse Cassel, as Members of the Germanic Body; for which the Traveller rebukes the Author, and says, those Princes know their Obligations to the Emperor, better than to want such an impertiment Scribbler's Instructions.

He next gives us a Supplement to the Life of the Emperor Maximilian II. relating to his Behaviour towards Bucer, a learned Man, who was imprison'd by the Elector of Saxony, for declaring he believ'd in Jesus Christ as God and Man; and for denying the real Presence in the Sacrament.

Maximilian being inform'd of it, and acquainted with the Man, ask'd the Elector whose Prifoner Bucer was and why kept from the Society of Men? The Elector reply'd, I am resolv'd to force him to an Agreement with my own Clergy, in controverted Points of Religion. To which the Emperor answer'd, I never dared nor desired to use any force in matters of Faith, and what relates to the Consciences of Men: I am sensible how vain is the endeavour, and how grievous and dangerous the Consequence.

The Elector then produc'd a letter seiz'd among Bucer's Papers, wherein the Emperor's actions were canvass'd with some freedom; but he return'd it back very calmly with these words, Nothing is said of us but what is true.

Hyp-Doctor, Thurs, Feb. 16. No. 10.

COntains a Letter written by Abdel Meles, a Turkish Physician attending the Turkish Nobleman here to his Friend Hamet Ben Omer, as Sentari, near Constantinople, dated the 1st of the 2d Moon of the Year 1731, and of the Hegira of the venerable Prophet 1128.

Among other things he informs his Correspondent, that we have in London our Ali Patrons, our snarlers in Politicks, who grin for a Wager at the Administration; there is a grinning Match every Saturday at the English Minister, between two Scribes, called Fog and Caleb; they are practis'd to grin at him as the Scotch Tutor said to his Pupil, when he taught him to speak extempore, Gern Jony; gern again, Jony.―These Gentlemen, he says, are exactly of the Temper of Ali Patron, (ring-leader of the Rebels in the late Insurrection in Turkey) and would copy his Freaks; he flourish'd a Flag, you know, in the great Market place of Constantinople, and bid all the true Believers, that is, such as would believe him, follow him. These Apes of Ali Patron flourish a sheet of foul Paper to muster up their patch'd Battalions of tag, rag, and bob-tail; that Sheet is called a Journal, and they have done penance in it more than once already.

Tells him, that the imitators of Ali Patron here, as well as the People, are damp'd at the intelligence of the unforeseen Destruction in which he involv'd himself and multitudes of his Admirers and Abettors throughout the whole City of Constantinople.

Imagines himself to be among his Brother Turks, and therefore calls all by his own Country Names. Says, the Divan here is compos'd of standing and occasional Memers; Mahomet Fog, and Muly Caleb, are the two writing Clerks to it: Muly Caleb has wrote lately against Pensions, tho' Rustan R-sh-t, Bajazet B-k-e, Pesteli P-t-y, and many others at this very day pension their two Amanuenses, and the Book of their Pay was found with their Hands to it.

That the Kaimachan of London, call'd the L-d M-r, brews the best Beer and the worst Politicks; only with this good quality, that they are rather flat than sour. There was a Clause preparing for the Senate by Ibrahim S-ys, Ognet Ognon T-n-l, and Hagdi W-d-m, that none who had Places in the Government, or received his Majesty's Stipends, should sit in P———t; which was very modestly telling the King, that those whom he judg'd his best Friends, deserv'd to be turn'd our of the House. The English P———t, by its native Constitution, consisted of none but Pensioners; for every Member was to be allow'd a Payment from his Borough, or County. That they who have clamour'd most against Pensions, ever practis'd, and now would be the first that would accept them; they decry them for being out of their reach. That, was even the Suggestion of buying Votes true, Caleb's Party have been considerable Jobbers in that Market; they were arch Wags upon what they call'd Ear-knots; yet they have been fairly jocky'd and dismounted; it was once a Cant amongst them, That no Citizen thought his Goods the worse, because they were paid for.

Proceeds to consider the word Pension in its utmost Latitude, and concludes with a humourous Description of Capt. Tom, one of the supposed Authors of the Craftsman.

* * *

The Grubstreet Journal, Thursday Feb. 25. No. 60.

MR. Bavius, in his Journal, entertains his Readers with some Animadversions on a late Performance, call'd Harlequin Horace. Makes mighty merry with the Frontispiece, Title-page, and Dedication, which, says the Grub-street Secretary, is a malicious Ridicule on [Mr. R———ch] an eminent member of our society, as well for his own marvelous and delectable compositions; as for the encouragement he has given our brethren, whereby many excellent pieces have been made publick; is was also notorious for the opprobium, it occasionally throws on some other worthy patrons and brethren, such as the sweet savour'd Mr. Heydegger, the Rev. and modest Mr. Henley, and the witty Dr Zoilus. He adds the book is much worse, tho' it had met with unmerited success. Then quotes several verses, and from thence takes occasion to satyrize other dramatick performances, that have been lately introduced upon the stage;

Things without head or tail, or form or grace,

A wild, forc'd, glaring, unconnected mess,

The last couplet he quotes, is,

What Bard for starving sense would suffer Death,

When fruitful folly is the establish'd Faith?

Confesses, that upon consulting the book of martyrs, he does not find any member of their society amongst them, their brethren always discreetly concluding, that whenever either senfe or religion begun to pinch them, they were immediately to be thrown off, like a straight pair of shoes.

* * *

Free Briton, Thursday, Feb. 25. No. 65.

IN this paper the author considers the natural relation of his Majesty's German dominions to the interests of Great Britain. As they are no parcel of the British Crown, nor sway'd by our laws, so they are not entitled to our protection: but as a country in friendship with us, as a barrier against popery, they deserve our support and assistance.

Holland, he says, is a part of our national care, as a bulwark against the princes of the continent, that the King of Great Britain, as Elector of Hanover, can protect this useful and inseparable ally from the attempts of the princes of the Lower Circles of the Empire.

Observes, that K. William thought the house of Hanover, and their dominions, highly serviceable to the liberties of Europe.

That the Act of Settlement is no argument against the truth of his assertion.

That it seems to have been the opinion of the legislature, that a prince succeeding to a great kingdom possess'd of foreign dominions, would rather make the interests of the lesser country subservient to the greater, than the greater to the less.

That the legislature made themselves judges of this interest by limiting the prerogative, and by restraining the King from engaging in any war on account of foreign dominions without the consent of parliament, not that he should never engage in any at all.

That K. James I. was stigmatiz'd with infamy for suffering the Palatine Electorate to be swallow'd up in pursuance of the ban of the Empire.

That the case with respect to the Electorate of Hanover is the same, and more justly claims our care, than ever the Palatinate did. 'Tis a protestant Electorate, threatned by the same power, with the fame usage, and on our account.

That in all our quarrels with the Emperor he will most likely execute his vengeance on such of our allies as are nearest to him, which are this Electorate, and the Dutch republick.

As to the objection of keeping up an army for the defence of an ally, when he was not invaded, he answers, that Q. Elizabeth did the same in the Netherlands, at and after the war between the Dutch and Spaniards.

Refers these objectors to the present state of Sweden, whose King, as Landgrave, never suffers his Hessian and Swedish interests to interfere.

Quotes an argument from a pamphlet, entitled, Considerations on the present state of affairs in Europe where the author supposes That if any of our allies were attack'd, whether the Hanover allies would concern themselves in the defence of the ally so attacked? That it would be most absurd to suppose the British Parliament would not defend the foreign dominions of their own Sovereign, as well as those of any other ally; and still more unaccountable would it be, if the King should not, as Elector, find the same assistance from the British nation as he would be sure of having, if he were Elector only, and not King.

The Universal Spectator, Sat. Feb. 27. No. 125.

TAkes for the subject of his discourse, the prayer of Socrates, That the Gods would give him such things themselves know to be most convenient and best for him. Intimating how ignorant mortals are of their own real wants, and what is proper for them to ask of Heaven.

Happiness, he says, is the pursuit of all; but we are so bewilder'd by our passions and ignorance, that with out divine assistance, it is impossible to attain it; that we mistake our own good, and eagerly pursue our sure destruction.

Says, that we have one certain rule to go by, that is, to follow close the steps of virtue.

That the dispensations of providence in giving prosperity to the wicked, and distress to the virtuous, tho' by some reckon'd irregular and unaccountable, yet on a near view we shall find the appearances are fallacious, and that those who are accounted the most happy, are commonly the most miserable.

To illustrate this, quotes a fable from M. De la Motte,―A wretch, says he, that by casting his eyes and his wishes on the circumstances of others, grew uneasy with his own, and wearied heaven with his complaints; Jupiter, to content him, took him up to his store-house, where the fortunes of all mankind stood sealed up in bags, and bid him chuse among them all.———The man, with all his strength, lifted up the first, that of supreme command, in which were conceal'd tormenting cares, but could not support the burden. He try'd a second and a third, but were all too ponderous for his shoulders. At last he lays hold of one lighter than the rest, and desired he might have that.———Take it, says Jupiter, and enjoy it, for indeed it's thy own, and learn from hence never to complain of providence.

Weekly Register, Feb, 27. No. 51.

FAlls upon the Grubstreet Journal, says, 'tis an easy transition from reforming constables to the authors of the Grubstreet; that they both seem to be of the same character, and act on the same principles.

Takes notice, that the first part of their entertainment generally consists of a lampoon, or some little private story. This province is given to Mr Bavius; observes, there is a weekly collection of scurrility, with the fundamental laws of the fociety, deposited in an ass's head at the upper end of the club-room, in opposition to the lyon's head at Button's. When any man is to be call'd names, no body, he says, does it more couragiously than Mr Bavius. Puns and conundrums fall to the share of Mr Quibus; and gentle Mr Poppy is the journalist of the club. Thus assifted, Mr Bavius begins his invective, or panegyrick; for 'till the piece be finish'd, 'tis hard to determine which 'twill prove. This uncertainty, he says, was occasion'd by an author, who desir'd them to recommend his work to the publick, by writing a satyr upon it: for if they condemn'd it, the world would judge it had merit.

Mr. Poppy writes the occurrences of the club. Mr. Quibus is employ'd in making sage remarks, and sprightly witticisms on the common articles of news.

Lastly, sets forth the method they use of dealing out their labours to the publick. To this purpose they adorn their Journal with prints, that the decoration may atone for other deficiencies, and children admire what men would not read.

Fog's Journal, Sat. Feb. 27. No. 127.

THIS Journal consists of Quotations taken from an author who wrote in K. William's time, some of which are as follows, viz.

The virtues requisite for those qualify'd to handle matters of Government, must have their foundation in virtue, wisdom, and Courage. He whose natural endowments of mind are not sufficient to foresee a long while before, what may be the event of a councel, cannot consult safety for his country; he, who upon all occasions, only consults what interest such, or such an affair will bring to himself, will never give sound advice.

No man can be virtuous or wise for the publick good, without a rich talent of the mind and a virtue which warmly embraces the liberty honour and interest of his country, the want of which some have supply'd by momentary shifts, and short remedies.

Unskilful medlers count it supreme wisdom to answer any single necessity, never regarding whether the manner of doing it, be safe, just or honourable.

Machiavel could never relish that maxim of enjoying the present benefit of time.

Cardinal Richlieu says, it is the duty of ministers to represent to their masters, that 'tis mere necessary to confider the future than the present; that the prevention of an evil is better than the remedy.

Lastly, If in future times, England shou'd have any cause to believe that the treasure of the publick has been embezel'd, if affairs shou'd ever happen to be in confusion and disorder, nothing but the legislative authority will be able to bring any effectual help to set us right, and restore us.

Applebee's Journal, Sat. Feb. 27.

COntains a letter from J. Cant, describing the folly of an old lecher, and the wanton pride of a young prostitute in an instance which he saw at the play-house, where he observ'd an old gentleman very officious in his care of a young girl of fifteen, whom he suppos'd to be his daughter; but enquiring into his character, found that in his youth he had been a kind husband and a tender father; but now nature declined, was grown vicious, and keeps this young creature for his mistress. The girl, is the daughter of one of his intimate acquaintance, who knows it, courted it, gave his consent with the same readiness, as if he had given her in marriage.

Such is his immoderate love of gold, that the sacrifice of his daughter he reckons but a trifle. She, silly and ambitious, sees her old lover's fortune can support her pride, and to that sacrifices her virtue, and every other valuable consideration.

She is imperious to her servants and usurps a saucy sway over the young gentlemen; is so excessively vain presumptuous and giddy, that she is become as odious as despicable to all her acquaintance. She is the common contempt, scorn and abhorrence of all that know her, and having left no room for pity or compassion, every tongue talks liberally and loudly of her infamy.

He then makes some serious reflections on the preceding account. Says, How ridiculous does the grey, hoary head, look bending and ducking it self in mimick bows of courtship and wantonness, to a girlish wench!

The London Journal, Sat. Feb. 27. No. 604.

MR. Osborne, in this paper, attacks the Craftsman, No. 242. Grants that in that paper, which begins the reign of the Stuarts, he has laid down some principles which are true: That in a country of freedom, or in a limited monarchy, there may be a faction for the crown, as well as against it. And, to know which is the factious side, we need only enquire, which side is for preserving, and which for altering the constitution. But observes, that the faction in those days was generally for the crown; as it is now against it. Charges Mr. Oldcastle with nonsense and infamy, in saying, That the spirit of liberty, and the British constitution, will, he hopes, remain clear of all imputations.

Declaims against Mr Oldcastle's manner of treating the persons of dead Kings with decency, and scandalously traducing the character of a living Prince.

Next, he guards the people against Mr Oldcastle's false application of true principles.

Lastly, observes that the assertion that the people are on their side, is false; because the people of England are free, examine more, and know more than other people in the world, and are, upon examination, less attach'd to the writings of the Craftsman.

The Craftsman, Saturday Feb. 27. No. 243.

IN this Journal, Mr. D'anvers resumes the topick which he has often treated of, namely, the liberty of the press. Declares he is pleased with some passages, which he quotes, in a Book intitled a Letter to Cleomenes, King of Sparta from Eustace Budgel, Esq; relating to the same subject, in which the author shews the manner in which the Athenians exercised this privilege. The author of this book says, he never heard but that in those Countries, where men are the greatest slaves they might write as much, and in what manner they pleased, upon any subjects but Religion and Politicks: Illustrates his argument with sundry examples. The first he gives, is, of Timoleon, who after the prodigious services which he had done his Country, was publickly traduced by one Demanetus of Syracuse; which, when Timoleon was informed of, he declared in a transport of joy that the Gods had at last, granted him the greatest favour they could have conferr'd upon him, since it had been the constant subject of his prayers, that the Syracusans might enjoy so perfect a state of liberty, that every Man amongst them might Speak freely and with impunity, what ever he thought of another.

Themistocles, after his great successes becoming cruel indolent, and rapacious was attack'd by Timocreon the poet, who charged him; that for three Talents, he call'd Men from banishment; murder'd others, and became profligate enough to laugh at his own Villanies.

The Athenian writers took the same liberty with Pericles, but the tyrant, tho' possessed of the supreme power, durst not destroy this branch of liberty, tho' he had trampled upon every other part of it. The comick poet brought him upon the stage in almost every play, and made no scruple to expose his ridiculous schemes and politicks.

Cleon and Alcibiades, in the height of their power, by the Athenian Wits and Writers; one of whom, says the author, drawing the character of an avaricious, and rapacious Man, in his play, had made him say, that he valued his money more than his country or friends. The Athenians were so offended with this sentiment that they were going to leave the theatre; when the author stept out from behind the scenes, and entreated them that they would only stay to see that villain thoroughly punish'd, who was capable of uttering such a sentence. They did so, and were satisfied with the poetical juftice that was executed upon the wretch.

In the Post-Boy of Feb. 20, was reviv'd an Historical and Law Treatise against Jews and Judaism, publish'd some years since.

THE author says, 'tis generally agreed by historians, that Wm. the conqueror translated the Jews from Rhoan to England for a certain sum of money. They were encourag'd by Wm Rufus to dispute with the Bishops. Upon this they grew so insolent that the enraged people drove them out of London, and oblig'd them to take sanctuary.

In the year 1730, 'twas discover'd that the Jews had stolen and crucify'd 18 christian children on Good Friday; they escap'd punishment thro' the corruption of the judges, but 4 of them paid 40,000 marks to the King as a fine, and others were banish'd.

In the 9th year of the reign of King Edward the First, he caus'd the penal laws to be establish'd, viz. That no Jew shall come for, or depart England, without a licence, on pain of death; nor shall walk or ride without a yellow badge upon his or her garment on pain of death; nor shall contemn Jesus Christ, nor blaspheme his divinity, on pain of being burnt; nor stir out of his house or lodging on Good-Friday; nor strike a christian, on pain of having his right arm cut off; nor shall kill a christian on pain of being hang'd alive on a gibbet, and be fed with bread and water, till he dy'd upon the same gibbet; that it any Jew cheat a christian, and escape, the rest of the Jews to make satisfaction; that all synagogues be supprest, and their rabbies or priests, if afterwards found teaching or preaching against the christian religion, be burnt; that no Jew transport, deface or melt down any christian coin; nor be sworn upon the Evangelists; that the judges shall not hear the testimony of a Jew against a christian; that the Jews shall have 4 judges, two whereof christians, the other Jews, who shall try and determine all causes between Jews and christians, that all the children of the Jews, so soon as born, shall be taken from them by the rector of the parish, who shall put them to nurses, and breed them up in the christian religion, for which the Jews to pay all charges; that in the exchequer appointed for the Jews, there shall be half christians and half Jews, who shall both have equal power, and different locks and keys to prevent fraud; that they account for money they lay out, and for the profit and return, before the justiciaries over the Jews, as often as they shall be requir'd; if any Jew be converted to the christian faith, all his usurous acquisition to be converted to pious and charitable ufes, but all his goods, estate or moveables shall be his own, and not the king's, as formerly accustom'd; that the Jews shall go to hear christian doctrine once a week, and as many English Jews as turn christians, shall be as free of England as if they were born of christian parents; that no Jew cohabit with a christian woman; nor be bury'd in any consecrated ground; nor correspond with any of the enemies of England; nor his widow have any right of administration, but after the decease of her husband, all the Jews effects, and moveables be vested in the king who shall be executor, and administer to all the Jews in England; and lastly, that no Jew shall sue for his own debts but in the name of the King, and with the King's licence; and if any Jew defraud the King of his customs, or other rights, he shall forfeit his all to the King.

After the author has recounted several transactions of the Jews, and many severities, publick Slaughters, massacres, and banishment, which they suffer'd in this and several other countries, he gives a list of the crimes for the total expulsion of the Jews throughout christendom, as follows.

1. For their blaspheming the name of Jesus Christ.

2. For cohabiting with, and debauching christian women.

3. For defacing the coin of christendom.

4. For betraying of Europe to foreign Infidels.

5. For stealing, crucifying and mangling christian children, and mocking the crucifixion of our Saviour, on good-friday.

6. For perverting christians to judaism, and

7. For undermining trade, and engrossing all commodities; as also for sending arms and ammunition to the enemies of the christian religion, to make war upon christendom. See a plea for the Jews, p. 27.

The Universal Spectator, Saturday, February, 6, No. 122.

A new Session of the POETS, for the Year, 1730.

WITH bombast, with doggrell, and nonsense quite cloy'd,

His laws all despis'd, his prerogative void,

Apollo, thought fit from these isles to elope,

But left his commission with Swift and with Pope.

Full bent was his bow, and unstrung was his lyre,

When with him the Nine were oblig'd to retire.

How pale was the sun! how unpleasant the day!

How heavy old time runs, since he went away.

 Soon Dullness, great goddess, usurp'd his command,

And publish'd her edicts all over the land,

For electing a Laureat, a Sessions to keep,

In the room of the late———who shall quietly sleep.

 Enthron'd sat the goddess, her subjects stood round,

And subject to Dullness, what numbers abound;

Came witlings, and dunces, and wrongheads so many,

Came some that were rich, more worth not a penny.

There was S-el-y, R-ch, W-ls-d, Concan-, and W-d

Charles J-ns-n, and C-mm-ns the Gloucestershire bard.

Old Dennis was cryer, and call'd out to order,

John H-y was town clerk, Giles Jacob recorder.

Each candidate brought the best sample he had,

Some tragedies merry, some comedies sad:

Some brought in whole volumes of clenches and puns,

And one, by mistake, brought a parcel of duns:

Some with the meer weight of their own works did blunder,

And one sent an Ass, heavy loaden with plunder;

Ev'n T-k-l and T-p came for sake of the pension,

Tom Southern, and others, I care not to mention:

First a Beau, clad in silk, produc'd his course stuff.

The goddess declar'd he had merit enough;

But bid him one instance from history bring,

Of the son of a Footman advanc'd to a King:

Dennis told him he treated his muse like a jade,

Since he drest her in Fustian, himself in Brocade.

 Whose petition is that? my trusty friend C-k's;

I honour him much for his dullest of books.

Some other protection I wish him to seek,

For I'll never give this to a dabbler in Greek.

So C-mm-ns was call'd, who was bred near her throne,

But he had forgotten his Cassock and Gown:

So for once was asham'd, and shrunk back for fear,

And miss'd being created a spiritual Peer.

 Then T-b-d came newly emerg'd from his Cave,

Well known to the Court for a Critick most grave;

The goddess rose up, and said, this was the man,

But him I've already crown'd King of a Clan.

 Next P-pe appeared, and enter'd his plea,

But his works did not all, with her standard agree,

How dares he, says she, approach to my shrine,

Who deny's such a thing as a Power divine!

D———s made a remark, that it wasn't so odd

He should own her a goddess who believ'd not a———

But commended him much for a poet so mild,

He knew not a fitter to sing to a Child.

Dick S———ge came pleading that he was undone,

She declar'd he was not her legitimate son:

And tho' C———r a precedent was of his side,

Yet she ne'er made a Judge of a Criminal try'd.

Nick Am———t came next———but sir R——— appear'd,

And soon got him expell'd; so well he was heard:

He swore to his ruin, the rebel to follow,

For secret intelligence held with Apollo.

With Torches, with Flambeaux, and abundance of fire,

T———g enter'd the hall, but was bid to retire;

She confess'd that his plays might pass for good things,

But his Satyr too much abounded with stings.

Poor Gay tho' he had not one friend in the Court,

Came like a bold Begger, and made his claim for't;

But soon he was told with a deal of grimace,

If he'd part with the pension, he might have the place.

The goddess at last quite impatient was grown,

And said, I declare for a Son of my own:

My C———y alone is deserving the bays,

He suck'd at these breafts, and he publish'd these plays:

In Hibernian shades, where I'm wont to retire,

A mortal comprest me, Mac Fleckno's his sire:

To plunder from Shakespear, or Fletcher he's free,

And he shall be always assisted by me:

C———y C——— no more, but Querno his name,

Thro' all my dominions, see publish the same.

 Just then he came singing, Reginam amamus,

And produced to the goddess the Royal mandamus,

You need not, she said, have ran upon score,

For what I had gratis design'd you before.

So rejecting each supplicant's humble petition,

She with her own mark sign'd and seal'd his commission;

Soon as known to Apollo he sent his protest,

And decreed from hence forward the place but a jest.

From the Weekly Register, Feb. 6, No. 43.

The Gentleman's Aversion. A Riddle.

THere's a being in nature, as light as a feather;

As fickle as wind, as inconstant as weather.

Now humble, then proud; now sweet and then sour;

Never wears the same humour, or conduct an hour,

'Tis a Lyon, a Lamb, an Eagle, a Dove;

All tameness, all fierceness, all hate or all love.

It can swear and protest; but it's oaths are so frail,

That he who rely's on't takes an Eel by the tail.

Shou'd a modern Coquet unriddle my riddle,

She may toss up her nose, and kiss my bumfiddle.

A Winter's Thought

By Mr. E———

All Seasons and their Change, &c.

Milton.

I.

The man whose constitution's strong

 and free from vexing care hismin,

As changing seasons pass along,

 Can in them all a pleasure find.

II.

Not only in the teeming bud,

 The opening leaf, and lively bloom,

(Urg'd by the sap's ascending flood)

 and fruit fair-knitting in its room.

III.

Not only when the smiling fields,

 In all their gaiety appear,

And the perfume their bosom yields,

 On balmy wings the Zephyr's bear,

IV.

In morning fair, and evening mild,

 The murm'ring brook, and cooling shade,

The notes of birds in confort mild,

 And philomela's serenade.

V.

Not only in the waving ear,

 And branches bending with their load

Or while the produce of the year,

 Is gather'd in and safely stow'd.

VI.

Pleas'd in the year's decline, he sees

 The fading leaf diversify'd,

With various colours, and the trees

 Strip and stand forth in naked pride.

VII.

Each hollow blast, and hasty shower,

 The rattling hail and fleecy snow,

The candy'd rhime, and scatter'd hoar,

 And isicles which downward grow.

VIII.

The shining pavement of the flood,

 To which the youthful tribes resort;

And game, which the discover'd wood

 Exposes to the fowler's sport.

IX.

The greens which winter's blasts defy,

 Thro' native strength or humane care

In hedge, or soft orangery,

 All a new source of pleasure are.

X.

The sun which from the northern signs

 Scorch'd with unsufferable heat,

Now in a milder glory shines,

 And every glancing ray is sweet.

XI.

The silver moon, and every star,

 Now forth to full advantage shine,

And, by the richest scene, prepare

 For noblest thoughts the enlarged mind.

XII.

Ev'n when the mornings slowest rise,

 Sweetly the nights can pass away,

In lucubrations with the wise,

 Or social pleasures with the gay.

XIII.

And when the winter tedious grows,

 And length'ning days cold stronger bring,

An unexhausted pleasure flows

 From expectation of the spring.

XIV.

So he, whose faculties are sound,

 His heart upright, and conscience clean,

Agreeably can pass the round

 Of life in every changing scene.

XV.

Not only in his youthful bloom,

 And while his strength continues firm,

But when the days of evil come,

 And age prepares him for the worm.

XVI.

Thankfulness gives his comforts weight

 And patience lightens ev'ry ill,

And in what ever ground he's set,

 Hope does with pleasing prospects fill.

XVII

Faith in a father's changeless love,

 Whose Christ will speedily appear,

And make eternal spring above,

 Does all his damps and darkness clear.

The Midsummer Wish.

By Mr. Stephen Duck.

WAft me some soft and cooling breeze,

 To Windsor's shady kind retreat,

Where Sylvan scenes, wide spreading trees,

 Repell the raging dog star's heat:

Where tufted grass, and mossy beds,

 Afford a rural calm repose,

Where Woodbines hang their dewy heads

 And fragrant sweets around disclose.

 His chrystal current Thames displays,

Thro' meadows sweet by flowers made,

 Along the smiling valley plays:

And bubbling springs refresh the glade.

 His fertile banks with herbage green,

His purling stream with plenty swells.

 Where e'er his coursing tide is seen,

The god of health and pleasure dwells.

 Let me thy pure thy yielding wave,

With naked arm once more divide;

 In thee my glowing bosom lave,

And gently stem thy rolling tide,

 Lay me with damask roses crown'd,

Beneath thy Osier's verdant shade,

 Where water lillies paint the ground,

And bubbling springs refresh the glade.

Let chaste Clarinda too be there,

 With azure mantle lightly drest.

Ye nymphs, bind up her silken hair,

 Ye zephirs fan her panting breast,

Oh! haste away fair maid, and bring

 Harmonious songs the voice of love,

To thee alone my muse shall sing.

 And warble through the vocal grove.

The Gossip's Tale; under the Rose.

TWO Gossips they merrily met,

 At nine in the morn before noon.

And they were resolv'd for a whet,

 To keep their sweet voices in tune.

Away to the tavern they went,

 Quoth Joan, I do vow and protest,

That I have a crown never spent.

 Come let's have a cup of the best.

And I have another perhaps,

 A piece of the very same sort:

Why should we sit thrumming of caps,

 Come drawer and fill us a quart,

And let it be liquor of life,

 Canary that sparkling wine.

As I am buxom young wife,

 I love to be gallant and fine.

The drawer as blithe as a bird,

 Came skipping with cap in his hand,

Dear ladies, I'll give you my word.

 The best shall be at your command,

A quart of canary he drew,

 Joan fill'd up her glass and begun,

Here's, Gossip, a bumper to you,

 I'd pledge thee, girl, were it a tun.

And pray, Gossip, did you not hear

 The common report of the town,

A man of five hundred a year,

 Is married to Dell o' the crown,

A draggle tail'd slut o' my word,

 Her cloaths hanging ragged and foul,

In troth he wou'd fain have a bird,

 That wou'd give a groat for an owl.

And she had a sister last year,

 Whose name they call draggle tail Pegg.

She'd take up a straw with her ear,

 I'll warrant her right as my leg:

A brewer he got her with child,

 But e'en let them brew as they bake,

I know she was wanton and wild,

 But I'll neither meddle nor make.

Nor I, gossip Joan, by my troth,

 Tho' nevertheless I've been told,

She stole seven yards of broad cloth,

 A ring and a locket of gold;

A smock, and a new pair of shoes,

 A flourishing Madam was she,

But Margery told me the news,

 And it ne'er shall go further for me.

I was at a gossipping club,

 Where we had a chiruping cup.

Of good humming liquor, strong bubb,

 Your husband's name there it was up,

For bearing a powerful sway,

 All neighbours his wonders have seen,

For he is a cuckold they say———

A constable,———gossip, I mean.

Dear gossip, a slip o' the tongue.

 No harm may proceed from the mind,

Chance words they will mingle among

 Our others we commonly find,

I hope you won't take it amiss———

 No, no, there is folly in us,

And if we by stealth get a kiss,

 Our husbands are never the worse.

The Lady's Delight, A Riddle.

SIR George, a remarkable justice o' peace,

A retailer of laws for the sake of the fees,

Had once brought before him a fellow, who loath

To discover his friends, took the following oath:

 An't like your, worship, sir, I've seen,

At a good house near College Green,

Four ladies, great as queens in name,

Meet four gallants of equal fame,

Their royal names I must conceal

Yet so much of them will reveal,

That you may soon guess who they are,

And what the name the ladies bear.

 Of either sex (pray note) there's two

Of portly mien; but swarthy hue,

The rest with ruddy faces prove,

They're not averse to sports of love;

And as I hope I shall be sainted,

I swear I think they all were painted.

And further still these wanton dames,

Address their sports with fond nick-names:

Come, lusty Hercules, says one;

Another, dearest Cupid, come.

If Pitts will fill my longing arms,

Says third, I'm free from future harms:

The fourth e'er she'll create a strife,

Resolves to be the Gardiner's Wife.

 Then strait, pursuant to their wish,

A service comes of costly fish:

Which ended they their tricks begin,

Upon a carpet red, or green,

Frisking and cap'ring in the air,

Like tumbler's at St James's fair.

Come, strip's the word, a lady cries,

See here the ready carpet lies:

Nay once a man whom well I knew,

As you do me, or I do you,

Chanc'd in the room where this lewd throng

Were at their gambols all ding dong,

And him they stript with looks demure,

And sent him home to seek a cure.

 By certain articles agreed on;

Each lady take the man she's need on;

Some, after having tired three,

Call, here a fourth man for me.

Oft have I through a cranny seen,

A lady, whom they call the queen,

Upon her back unseemly lain,

Supporting a gallant or twain;

And all the club with eyes intent

Upon this shameful merriment.

When one doth to another call,

Be't he, or she they turn up all,

I heard them with, familiar faces,

Disputing briskly of their A-s

Mine's black, says one, and nam'd the thing.

Mine, says another, 's for the King,

Why, says a third, 'cause I've a red one,

Must I the publick jest be made on?

 This is the trade these ladies drive,

Then guess how well their husbands thrive:

In short, they are scarce e'er content;

Till all they have is gone and spent.

Honour has stood so many stakes,

That the stale bait no longer takes.

'Tis this, and other such like doings,

That many a soul and body ruins,

Which, as a justice of the peace,

I hope your worship will suppress.

 Hold, sir! I think there's one thing else,

Such as no hist'ry parallels:

After one man, in one short hour,

Six times has done the trick well o'er,

Says madam, I'll beg one more.

Then to't again they all engage,

Down from the monarch to the page.

 Oft have I seen when tir'd with play,

One set of gallants turn'd away,

A young lady hath sent her man

For fresh ones to begin again.

A Bacchanalian Flight.

DEscend my muse, descend with speed!

And aid me with thy gen'rous steed,

(We bards would have you understand,

Tho' poor we've horses at command)

I'll take a journey into th' air,

And build a few fine castles there.

 'Tis done, the Pegasus appears,

Arch'd his high neck, and cock'd his ears,

What vig'rous blood swells every vein,

How graceful flows his waving main!

What sparkling flame his eye balls dart,

How well proportion'd ev'ry part!

(You see no Pegasus, you cry.

Then, sir, you've no poetick eye)

And now I'm fix'd, and now he go's,

Where we'll take up he's wise that knows:

Gods! what a prospect neers my sight!

I'm pleas'd―and yet I'm in a fright.

Prodigious this, still, still we rise,

We'll in a moment reach the skies.

Already see the Lunar sphere!

But what do's Mr B---l there?

Too plain a proof it must be own'd,

That I'm still grov'ling on the ground.

The House-keeper. A Tale.

OLD B―db―y at eighty six,

Just stepping into River Styx;

Losing about some thirty guineas,

For want of care like other ninnies,

Brings all his folks before the justice,

To sift out where the sad mistrust is.

 The gold was missing from his chest,

Too true to make of it a jest.

 His worship close examin'd all.

Finding on whom the charge must fall,

Said―sir―your damsel Nanny has it;

None else can come within your closet:

So strong the circumstances fit her,

I'll strait send for her and commit her,

 Hold good sir Gill, she keeps my house,

And would not wrong me of a sous;

No girl is faithfuller or juster.

With all I have I dare to trust her―

As she does him―be sure he meant,

So home returned well content.

 This is the third time, to his cost,

He'as made a stir for money lost,

Only to let the country know

He pays for what he cannot do;

And thinks himself not much the worse

If none but Nanny, dip in's purse.

A DIALOGUE, Written by a Gentleman of Oxford.

WHen F———ls join'd with Kn———s beyond all expectation,

Pass'd a vote [for the good (or the hurt) of the nation;]

Quoth Ralpho to Robin, his intimate crony,

As they walk't from the house where 'twas done, See you Tony,

All the world's on our side; 'tis in vain to stand out.

E'en ——— and ——— are tacking about.

E'ery soul will leave you, unless first you them leave;

Prithee join, and to th' de———l the hindermost give.

 Quoth Robin, tho' th' hindmost to the de———l you've curst,

Are you sure, he'll not rather seize first on the first?

I grant flesh is frail, apt to vary for profit;

H———, W———, L——— are witnesses of it.

But what we have just done, comes, for all you're so jolly,

Not from your party's strength, but of ours from the folly.

In the act we have voted, howe'er it content ye,

By the far major part, there's no complement meant ye.

Not love to your patrons or principles won it,

But pique against some 'mongst our selves, 'tis has done it.

'Tis purely for joke sake, as sure as you're here,

 Quoth Robin, I vow, Friend, you're joke costs you dear.

Nor care we, tho' 't be as you say, we've the name on't.

Much good may't do you with the loss and the shame on't.

 Hold friend, reply'd Robin, don't boast too much yet,

But see at the end who'll lose or who'll get.

* * *

* * *

THE

Monthly Intelligencer.

February, 1731.

* * *

Monday, February 1.

THE Companies of his Majesty's Ship Canterbury, Dreadnought, and Portland were paid their several wages due to December 31, 1729, and likewise two months pay in six.

Tuesday, Feb. 2.

Wm Banks and Tho. Williams, on security given for their good behaviour, were discharg'd out of Newgate, after two years imprisonment, to which they were sentenc'd upon conviction of an intent to rob the house of Sir Robert Walpole, at Chelsea.

Wednesday, Feb. 3.

Orders sent to his Excellency the E. of Kinnoul at Constantinople, to congratulate the Grand Signier on his accession to the throne.

Thursday, Feb. 4.

His Majesty's Ship the York, of 60 guns, the Pearl of 40, and the Salisbury, were put in commission; the Pearl for Guinea, and the Salisbury for Newfoundland.

Friday, Feb. 5.

Mr. Cordwell, brother to the city-carpenter, appointed carpenter for rebuilding part of St. Bartholomew's hospital.

Seven persons confin'd in Woodstreet-Compter, and two in the Poultry, on executions from the court of conscience in London, were discharged by the charity of the worshipful companies of Merchant-taylors and Mercers.

Saturday, Feb. 6.

A cheese monger of Thames-street, riding between Bromley and Deptford, dropt 190 l. out of a bag; on Sunday morning he went back to Lewisham, and made known his loss; which the rev. Dr. Lewis took occasion to mention in his Sermon, and the obligation of restoring things that are lost. After service proclamamation was made in the church-yard, offering a reward of 5 s. in the pound for what should be found of it, and before night 40 l. was brought in.

Sunday, Feb. 7.

Their Majesties were not at chappel, nor din'd in publick, on account of their indisposition.

Thursday Feb. 11.

Was held a general court of the governors of St. Bartholomew's hospital, when Mr. Jones, son-in-law to Dr. Bamber, lithotomist to that hospital, who had been nominated by the accompting-house to be their assistant, was proposed to the court to be confirmed; but being rejected, Dr. Bamber resign'd his place of lithotomist. The Court then proceeded to a fresh choice; and propos'd that for the future, that operation should be perform'd by the surgeons of the hospital; on a division there were,

For the surgeons of the hospital, 70

For Mr. Blagden, surgeon 50

At Exon was celebrated with great magnificence the birth-day of the son of Sir Wm Courtnay, Bar. at which no less than 10,000 persons were present, a bullock was roasted whole, a ton of punch, and 2 tons of wine, and several tons of beer and cyder was given to the populace. At the same time Sir Wm deliver'd to his son, then of age, Poudram-castle, and a fine estate.

The famous French bitch, that plays at cards, and performs many wonderful tricks, beat Dr. Arbuthnot three games at quadrille.

The number of Attornies sworn in the two courts of King's-Bench and Common-Pleas, calculated at 4000.

Friday, Feb. 12.

The Attorney general came into the King's-bench court at Westminster, and filed an information against the printer of the Craftsman, for his paper concerning the Hague letter; and also informations against two persons for publishing the same.

Charlesworth and Cox, two attornies, received judgment for the forgery of which they stood convicted; the former was fin'd 50 marks, to stand on the pillory, and to give security for his good behaviour for 5 years; the latter fined 5 marks, to stand on the pillory, and to give security for his good behaviour for 2 years.

Lately a small runner put into Marazion in Cornwal, which had on board about 3 or 4 score anchors of brandy, some tobacco and soap. The officer stopt the vessel, and put three officers on board, who were soon displac'd by 50 or 60 men, who cut open the hatches and took away the brandy, &c. and then rode off. She was call'd, The calamity Sloop.

Sunday, Feb. 14.

The rev. Dr. Hargrave preach'd before their Majesties in the royal chapel at St. James's, and the Lord De la War carry'd the sword of state.

Monday Feb. 15.

A printing-press and cases for composing, were put up at St. James's house for their Majesties to see the noble art of printing. The two youngest princesses compos'd their names, under the direction of Mr. S. Palmer, a printer in this city. And his R.H. the Duke wrought at one of the cases, to compose for the press a short piece of his own writing, call'd, The Laws of Dodge Hare, which is as follows.

HE that falls must have five Stripes.

He that falls on purpose must be catch'd.

He that looks must not play off one game.

He that lets himself be catch'd must be let go again.

He that don't catch whom he can, must have four stripes on his hand.

He that crys whoop before the rest are hid must have two stripes.

He that accuses another wrongfully must have 100 stripes.

He that takes hold of another must be catch'd.

He that gets over the Beds must have ten stripes.

He that flicks pins in the bed-posts must have eighty stripes.

He that stands in the way must have 40 stripes.

He that does not sit still after he has been home must have five stripes.

He that tells over or under five must be catch'd.

He that mistakes the name must be catch'd.

The Algerine embassadors went to see Mr. Fawkes, who, at their request, shew'd them a prospect of Algier, and rais'd up an apple-tree which bore ripe apples in less than a minute's time, which most of the company tasted of.

The S. S. company agreed to send 7 ships this year, on the whale fishery, in Davies's streights.

From Uppen in the county of Wilts, 'tis written, that one Richard Small, eat 85 eggs, fry'd with three pounds of bacon, and drank three quarts of stale beer, immediately after he had breakfasted.

A man near 73 years of age was cut for the stone in St. Thomas's hospital, by Mr. Freeke, and is like to do well.

An ivory turner had waited several times on his R. H. the Duke, to instruct him in that art, it being a most healthful exercise.

Tuesday, Feb. 16.

Came on the trial at the court of King's Bench, Westminster, between Mary Odert plaintiff, and one Graille defend, in an action of damages for 500l. upon a copy of indictment granted to the plaintiff, by the court at the Old Baily, upon her being acquitted of a felony charg'd upon her by the defend. The jury found a verdict for the plaintiff, and gave her the aforefaid damages.

Friday, Feb. 19.

His Majesty went to the house of peers, and gave his royal assent to the Malt-bill, and two private ones.

His Majesty purchas'd for the sum of 2,400 l. the Westminster water-work, for the better perfecting the serpentine river or canal in Hyde-park.

The King of France presented Humphry Parsons, Esq; Lord Mayor of this city, with his picture finely drawn, in return for the many favours receiv'd from his Lordship.

Lately were discover'd near Brasil, coffee trees; the berries of which, tho' small, are esteem'd better than those brought from Asia.

Sunday, Feb. 21.

The rev. Dr. Jones preach'd before their Majesties in the royal chapel at St. James's; and the rev. Mr. Crow chaplain to the Bp of London, before the Duke, and the two young Princesses, in his highness's apartment.

Tueday Feb. 23.

The rev. Mr. Smith preach'd before the associates of Dr. Bray deceas'd, at the church of St. Augustine, near St. Paul's. The subject of his discourse related to the furnishing of parochial libraries; for instructing negro slaves at the British plantations in the christian religion, and for the charitable planting and establishing poor families, who are willing to settle in the south part of Carolina, where lands are already assigned for that purpose by the King to the said associates.

Orders sent to the commssioners of his Majesty's ships of war in the West-Indies, to repel by force, and make reprizals on such of the Spanish guard de cofta's, as shall attack the British merchant ships.

Thursday, Feb. 25.

The sessions ended at the Old Bailey, when 4 persons receiv'd sentence of death, viz. John Chapel for murder, to be hang'd in chains; (see No. I. p 32.) George Wheat, John Andrews, Wm Williams, all three for robberies on the high-way. (See No. 3. p. 128.)

The Empress of Russia had contracted with some English merchants for a considerable quantity of woolen cloth, which for a year or two past had been supply'd by the Prussians.

The stewards of the hon. society of ancient Britons, with the rev. Mr. Williams, waited on the Prince of Wales, to invite his R. H. to dinner on St. David's day, and had the honour to kiss his hand.

An account of the money collected on occasion of the feast of the sons of the clergy held this day.

Collected at the rehearsal 203 9 7

At the choir on feast day 34 16 6

At the hall, 480 5 3

718 11 4

The Rt. H. the Marquis of Blandford honour'd the corporation with his company, and gave ten guineas. Four bishops were likewise present, viz. of London, Glocester, Hereford, and Landaff.

Was held a court at Bridewell, before the Ld Mayor and governors, when Mr. Hosier received his charge as governor, and the following gentlemen were made governors, viz. Tho. Cope, jun. Esq; Sam. Clarke, Esq; John Radcliffe Smith, Esq; Mr. Chr. Oliver. Mr. Deputy Pitt, Mr. Chowne, Sir Henry Hoo Keat, Bar. Mr. Richard Bridgman, Mr. William Sheldon, Mr. Robert Glynn, William Gore, Esq; Oliver Merton, Esq; and Mr. Thomas Russel.

Friday, Feb. 26.

A great number of prisoners, about this time, who were confined in the two compters for debts under 5l. were discharged by a charity of 500l. left by Sir Thomas Pengelly deceas'd, for that purpose.

Mr. J. Woodyer, a native of Ireland, has invented a machine to supply the want of an observation, by the compass improv'd, which he intends to lay before the Lords of the Admiralty, and the royal society. See p. 253.

Sunday, Feb. 28.

The rev. Dr. Crow preach'd before their Majesties, his R. H. the Prince, and the Princesses Amelia and Carolina, in the chapel at St. James's; and the rev. Dr. Jones, before his R. H. the Duke, and the Princesses Mary and Louisa in his highness's apartment.

CASUALTIES.

Feb. 3. MR. Stagg, of Walton on Thames, dropt down dead on the road of an apoplectick fit.

At Ennis in Ireland, Mr. Meddun a high constable and his son, a youth of about 18 or 19, having been lately barbarously murdered in their beds, Meddun's wife was suspected, having 'tis said, kill'd her former husband Cavanagh. No robbery was committed, which with other circumstances evidencing strongly against her, she was sent to Ennis Goal. See p. 172.

5. Two men digging under a laystall at Mountmill near Islington, a great quantity of earth fell upon them, whereby one was kill'd the other much hurt.

9. James Stillford, an elderly man found drown'd in a pond near Islington.

11. Mr. Barton, a coal-dealer, fell off a lighter near Billingsgate, and was drowned.

One Parkinson, an attorney, at Newcastle upon Tyne, lockd himself in his chamber, and sitting by the fire fell into it, and was burnt to death.

13. The body of a man was thrown up at Puddle-dock by the tide, having a deep wound in his neck near his windpipe, besides several other wounds and bruises; had nothing on but the collar of his shirt, and shoes, and stockings.

15. A barge-man fell into the dock at Queen-bythe, and was drowned.

17. Mr. Claypole, who had been city butler upwards of 30 years, cut his throat, and dy'd immediately.

20. A corn wind-mill near Stratford in Essex, took fire for want of greasing, and was burnt.

21. Mr. Barbineau, silk weaver in Gun-sreet Spittlefields, cut his throat: His wife coming into the room, he cut her cross the wrist with a penknife, and then stabb'd himself in 5 places, and dy'd presently.

23. A journey-man to a clock maker in Spittlefields, coming home in drink, had words with his master, the next morning cut his throat, but not doing it effectually, hang'd himself with a clock line in the workshop.

One John Gerrard a labourer, in Barney in Norfolk, was brought prisoner to Norwich-Castle for the murder of two of his own children, one an infant in arms, the other a boy about 5 years old. After he had done the murder he carried them both on his back to Barney church-yard, and there laid them between two graves. He appears to be lunatick.

26. An ox gored a man in Cheapside in a terrible manner, one of his thighs being broke short; of which he dy'd in about 4 hours.

Mr. Vicaris, brother to Mr. Alderman Vicaris, a mercer in Oxford, as he was walking over Rottely-Bridge, in Oxford, fell into the River and was drowned.

* * *

Ships, &c. taken, lost, &c. according to Advices this Month.

THE Anne, capt. Goodridge, bound from Barbadoes to Boston in new England, was lately lost on Martha's Vineyard.

The John and Mary, capt. Quirk was lately lost near Boston.

The Kinghorne, captain Gourlie, was lately lost on the coast of Carmarthenshire.

The N. S. de la Conception, St. Antonio el Cotibo, formerly the Lambert-Galley, was lately lost at Maracabia.

The Lovely Snow, of Limerick, Vanhoggerdine master, loft 3 leagues to the Eastward of Faro, but her crew and part of her cargo sav'd.

The 20th instant a laden collier bound from London, was cast away on a sand within sight of Pakefield, and 11 of her crew drowned.

The Anna Maria, captain Hardy, laden with bale goods, &c. stranded near Esteponia.

The Prosperity, Gerrard; founder'd in her way to Bilbao.

A French vessel from Marseilles, lost near Lisbon, and 5 of her crew drown'd.

The Shipton, capt. Mallet, a West-India ship, lost in Bristol channel.

The Thomas, capt. Devereux, on the coast of Ireland.

The Anne Sloop, captain Stadden from Barbadoes, lost, and her crew drowned.

The Elizabeth Sloop, captain Martin from Oporto, lost near Liverpool the 17th instant.

The Triton of Bristol, lost on the coast of Carolina.

The Speedwel of Cork, Wm Gionou master, put into Beere Haven about the 11th Jan. where the master with others on shore, landed and divided the goods, and sunk the ship. The master returning to Cork, was suspected and committed to goal, when he confest the particulars aforesaid.

The Bridget and Kitty, capt. Minshall at Liverpool, lost in the windward passage from Jamaica, most of her men perish'd, the rest got to St. Christophers.

The Farfield, captain Hudson, the London, captain ———, the ——— captain Brown, and a small pink, were all 4 lately lost in their voyage from Newcastle to London.

A French ship, and the Charming Betty, capt. Carter, from the Canaries, both lost on the cost of Italy.

The Camberwel, cap. Condon, bound from Newfoundland to the Streights, founder'd near Gibralter.

DEATHS.

Feb. 1. MR. Thomas Mitchel, Secretary to the East India Company.

2. Henry Lyell, Esq.; a Swedish Merchant, formerly one of the Directors of the East-India Company, but being almost blind, resign'd that Office at the last Election. His Estate descended to his Brother Baltzer Lyell, Esq; then in the Direction of the said Company.

Capt. Richard Holden, late Commander of the Ship Mary, in the said Company's Service, and is succeeded in that Command by his Brother.

3. The Widow of Justice Jackson, at Brentwood, in Essex.

4. Mr. Smith, Store-keeper of the Dock-yard, at Deptford.

Mr. Andrew Pels, of Amsterdam, reputed one of the richest Merchants in Europe, lately dy'd there.

5. Sir John Cotton, of Stratton, in the County of Bedford, Bart. He was descended from Sir George Cotton, Bart. Donor of the Cottonian Library. The Title and Estate of 4000l. per Annum, descended to his Uncle Robert Cotton, of Geding, in the County of Huntingdon, only surviving Son of the late Sir John Cotton, of Connington in Huntingdonshire, Bart. the rest of his Estate, he bequeathed to his Cousin John Cotton, Esq; Son of his said Uncle.

6. The Revd Dr. Cole, at the Deanery-house in Norwich. He was Dean of Norwich, Rector of Raynham in the County of Norfolk, and of Newton, near Wisbich in the Isle of Ely.

8. Thomas Geers, Esq; at his Lodgings in Lincolns-Inn Fields.

Mr. Richard Rodoway, one of the Com. Council-Men of Bishopsgate Ward

9. Sir John Frederick, Bart at his House in Gerrard-street, Soho.

Capt. Robert Reed, of the first Troop of Horse-Guards.

Robert Abbot, Esq; of Stepingley-Park, in Bedfordshire.

Springet Pen, Esq; at Dublin, Grandson to Sir Wm. Pen, the famous Quake.

Mr. Nath. Weld, a dissenting Minister in the same City.

Mr. Henry Norris, commonly called Jubilee Dicky, a celebrated Comedian.

11. Allen Holland, Esq; at his House in Holland-street, Soho.

12. Captain Lucy, at his House in great James-street.

Joseph Wilmore, Esq; at his Seat at Thadon-Hall, in Essex.

Mrs. Chauncy, at Edgecote near Banbury, Sister to Toby Chauncy, Esq; Member of Parliament for that Borough.

Sir Philip Tynte, at Camberwel in Surry.

13. The Wife of Mr. Drummond, an eminent Banker at Charing-Cross.

The Lady of the Hon. Hugh Dalrymple, Esq; at Edinburgh.

John Chancellor, of Shield, Esq; who was a Magistrate in Edinburgh in the Year 1684, and was in the 84th Year of his Age.

15. Mrs. Alice Hearne, a Maiden Gentlewoman of a great Fortune, at her House in Endfield.

The second Son of the Rt Hon. the Lord Paisly, about this time, at Mr. Plumer's Seat in Hertfordshire.

Mrs. Wilson, a widow lady, at Drayton in Bucks, reckon'd worth 20,000l.

Henry Baker, Esq; at Portsmouth, Surveyor of the Customs in that Port.

The Wife of the Rev. Mr. Carter, Rector of Wimbish in Essex, only Daughter of Thomas Gilbert Esq; a Wine merchant.

18. Joseph Bagnash, Esq; of Haslemere in Surry.

By the last Ship from Oporto we learn, that Mr. John Smith, A. M. died there the 31st past. He was Chaplain to the British Factory there, a post of as much caution as profit, in a country tyrannized over by the Inquisition, which will hardly licence divine service in private houses.

Mr. Overing, a seale maker, in Bartholomew-lane; a man curious in his business, and a large trader, having the last year sent 27000 pair of seales to Portugal.

Barnabas Barkwell, Esq; at Tyrringham, in Buckinghamshire.

19. The wife of Dr. Middleton, at Cambridge.

Letters from Russia give an account of the Death of Thomas Ward, Esq; son of the English Consul there, November last.

20. The Lady Norton, at her House in Wild-street.

The Lady of Sir Anthony Abdy, of Felix-Hall in the County of Essex.

Mr. Francis Bird, a famous statuary; as the many lofty tombs and magnificent monuments in Westminfter-Abbey, and other Churches sufficiently testify. The statues about St. Paul's, and many ornaments of that cathedral are strokes of his masterly hand. He travell'd twice to Rome, and other parts of Italy, to gain Experience.

Rich. Mytton, of Halton in Shropshire, Esq; His eftate of 3000l. per ann came to John Mytton, Esq; an eminent Portugal merchant of this city.

27. The rev. Mr. Wm. Bentham, A. M. rector of Tasborough in Norfolk, minister of the two parishes of St. Giles and St. Gregory, in Norwich, one of the canons of the cathedral, and præcentor, at Norwich.

Mrs. Jane Lowther, sister to Sir Chr. Lowther, Bart. in Masham street, Westminster. (See Deaths in October.)

MARRIAGES.

Feb. 1. MR. Atwood, a barrister at law, married to Mrs. Mary Glasier, whose father was a proctor in Doctors Commons.

16. The rev. Mr. Powell, one of the minor canons of St. Peter's Westminster, to Miss. Bentham of Dean's Yeard, Weftmister.

18. Mr. Morehead, late tutor to Mr. Hunt, deceas'd, to Mrs. Hunt, relict of the said Gentleman, who left Mr. Morehead, a legacy of 6000l.

20. Seville Hyde, Esq; of Sunbridge in Kent, to Miss Adamson, of Goodman's-fields.

Sir Wm. Barker of Ipswich, one of the Nights of the Shire for the county of Suffolk,———to Mrs. Spencer a Widow Lady of the same County. (She became a Widow again in August following, by Sir Wm's Death, who was succeeded by his only Son, now Sir John Barker, by his first Wife Mary, Daughter of John Bence, Esq;

22. Mr. Bumstead, to Miss Eyles, daughter of Sir John Eyles, Bart.

Sir James Wood, Bart. Brigadier-general of his Majesty's forces, and Col. of the reg. of Scots fusileers, to the only daughter of Mr. Edward Jones, master of the royal vineyard in St. James's-park.

Wm. Freeman, son of Ralph Freeman, Esq; to Miss Blunt.

The rev. Mr. Eyre, canon of Salisbury, to the widow White of that city,

25. William Ingram, Esq, an eminent lawyer of New-Inn, to the daughter of the late Edward Lascells, of Stoke-Newington, Esq.

PROMOTIONS Civil and Military.

ALexander Gould, Esq; youngest son of John Gould of Hackney, Esq; made inspector of the out-port collectors accounts.

Mr. Fox, made upholsterer to his R. H. the Pr. of Wales.

Mr. Christopher Mole, chosen secretary to the East-India Company, in the room of Mr. Mitchel. deceas'd.

Capt. Vanbrugh, made commander of the York; Capt. Lee, of the Pearl; and Capt. Clinton, of the Salisbury, lately put in commission.

——— Courtnay, Esq; eldest Son of Sir Wm. Courtnay, Bart. has been lately honour'd with a Master's degree in Magdalen College, Oxford.

The Ld Vere Beauclerk, brother to the D. of St. Albans, and representative in parliament for the borough of New-Windsor, appointed governor of a large tract of land in New-England, and commander of his Majesty's ship Anglesea.

The Lds Commissioners of the Admiralty, have appointed Mr. Loton, clerk of the cheque at Plymouth, to be store keeper of his Majesty's yard at Deptford, in the room of Mr. Smith deceas'd; and Mr. Cleveland, clerk of the cheque at Plymouth.

His Majesty has signed Commissions for the following gentlemen, viz.

Sir Wm. Elis, to be ensign in Brig. Tyrrel's Regiment,

Mr. Maxwell, ensign in Col Egerton's Regiment.

Mr. Monroe, ensign in brig. Clayton's Regiment.

Mr. Darcey, ensign in col. Cosby's Regiment.

Mr. Bolton, ensign in gen. Groves's Regiment.

Mr. Sutherland, son to the Lord Duffus, (now in the Czarina's service) ensign to col. Disney's Regiment.

Mr. Thomas Kent, is constituted one of the clerks in the first fruit-office in the Temple.

20. Mr. William Allen, appointed customer at Portsmouth, and Chichester, in the room of Henry Baker Esq; deceas'd, see deaths.

Thomas Robinson, Esq; and his brother Mr. Septimius Robinson, kiss'd their Majesties hands, the former being made a baronet of Great-Britain, and the latter a col. in general Wade's Regiment of horse.

19. The Marq. of Lothian, unanimously elected one of the sixteen peers of Scotland, to sit and vote in the Parliament of Great-Britain, in the room of the E. of Deloraine, deceas'd.

David Dunbar, Esq; surveyor general of his Majesty's woods in New-England, appointed lieutenant governour of the Province of New Hampshire, in the room of John Wentworth, Esq; deceas'd.

Thomas Abney, Esq; chosen chairman, by the Justices at Hick's-hall, in the room of Wm. Cowper, Esq;

Mr. Elmes succeeds Mr. Twyland, as land-waiter in the port of London.

Ecclesiastical Preferments conferred on the following Reverend Gentlemen.

THE rev. Mr. John Rodd, presented to the rectory of Ridmarley-Dabbitot in the county and diocese of Worcester, worth 200 l. per ann.

Mr. Debar, to the rectory of Holdenby in the county of Northampton, and diocese of Peterborough.

Dr. Reynolds, son to the Ld. Bp. of Lincoln, to the rectory of Farthingstowne, in the county of Northampton, and diocese of Peterborough.

Mr. Holgate, to the rectory of Rigbye, in the county and diocese of Lincoln.

Dr. Gally, chaplain to the Rt. hon. the Ld chancellor, to the living of Ashton in Northamptonshire.

Mr. Brinkley, to the rectory of Beoke, in the county of Cornwal, and diocese of Exeter.

Mr. Hallings, to the vicarage of Ledbury in the county and diocese of Hereford.

Mr. Hawkins, chaplain to the Rt. hon. the Ld Mayor of this city, to the living of Hungerford.

Mr. Case, A. B. to the rectory of Goodaston, in the county of Kent, and diocese of Canterbury.

Mr. Lloyd, to the rectory of Fornces, in the county of Norfolk and diocese of Norwich.

Dr. Samuel Knight, a learned and and ingenious antiquary, appointed one of the chaplains in ordinary to his Majesty.

Dr. Croxal presented to the living of St. Mary Somerset, and St. Mary Monthaw in Thames-Street annex'd, and is to hold by dispensation his vicarage of Hampton, in Middlesex.

Dr. Batts appointed dean of the cathedral church of Norwich.

Mr. Helford, presented to the rectory of Lillington Darell, in the county of Buckingham, and diocese of Lincoln.

20The Rt. rev. Dr. Smallbrook, Bp of St. David's, was translated to the see of Litchfield and Coventry, and took the usual oaths.

BANKRUPTS, declared

ELizabeth Partridge, of Minchinhampton, in the county of Gloucester, widow, and John Partridge her son clothiers and partners.

John Legg, of London, woollen-draper.

John Dudley, of Coventry, filkman.

Burges Rutland, of the parish of St. George the Martyr, in the county of Middlesex, apothecary.

John Brindley, of Kinsare, in the county of Stafford, ironmonger.

John Vernon, of London, vintner.

Luke Lowther, of the city of York, vintner.

Thomas Hughes, of Liverpool, merchant.

Edward Ford, of Exon, woollen-draper.

John Jones, of Warwick, in the county of Warwick, mercer.

Thomas Joyner, of Barkin, in Essex maltster.

Note, The Monthly-Bill of Christnings and Burials in London, which in the two former Editions was in this Page, is in this Third Edition placed on p. 49.

Abstract of the London WEEKLY BILL from Tuesday, Jan. 26. to Tuesday Feb. 28.

Christned Males 748 1409

Females 661

Buried Males 1057 2176

Females 1119

Of which dy'd of Consump. 315, Fevers 251, Small pox 125.

Died under 2 Years old ——— 793

Between 2 and 5 ——— 134

Between 5 and 10 ——— 69

Between 10 and 20 ——— 81

Between 20 and 30 ——— 171

Between 30 and 40 ——— 214

Between 40 and 50 ——— 231

Between 50 and 60 ——— 150

Between 60 and 70 ——— 143

Between 70 and 80 ——— 100

Between 80 and 90 ——— 66

Between 90 and 100 ——— 25

* * *

Prices of Goods, &c. in FEBRUARY, 1731.

Towards the End of the Month.

STOCKS.

S. Sea 101 1001⁄2

——— Bonds 6l. 2s.

——— Annu. 107

Bank 1481⁄8

——— Circulation 4l. 15s.

——— Mil. Bank 109

India 1901⁄8 a 1⁄4

——— Bonds 6l. 6s.

Afric. 531⁄2

Royal Ass. 98

Lon. ditto 121⁄2 to 3⁄4

York Build. 253⁄4

3 per Ct. An. 96

English Copper 3l.

Welsh ditto 2l. 10s.

Lottery Tick.

The Course of EXCHANGE.

Amst. 34 10

D. Sight 34 8

Rotter. 35 a 24 11

Antwer. 35 8

Madrid 42

Bilboa 415⁄8

Leghor. 50 a 3⁄4

Genoa 533⁄4

Hamb. 33 5

Paris Sight 317⁄8

Boud. 311⁄8

Cadiz 42

Venice 481⁄2

Dublin 117⁄8 12

Lisbon 5 57⁄8 a 12

Oporto 5 53⁄4

Prices of Goods at Bear-Key.

Wheat 21 to 25

Rye 13 to 16

Barley 15 to 18

H. Beans 20 to 23

P. Malt 20 to 22

Oates 10 to 14

Tares 19 to 23 6d.

Pease 20 to 22 6d.

H. Pease 16 to 18

B. Malt 16 to 18

Prices of Goods, &c. in London.

Hay 1l. 19s. a load.

Coals per Chaldron 28 to 30

New Hops per Hun. 2l. to 3l.

Old Hops 30s. to 2l.

Rape Seed 11l. to 11l. 10s.

Lead the Fodder 19 Hun. 1 half on board, 16l. 10s.

Tin in Blocks 4l. 00s.

Ditto in Bars 4l. 02s. exclusive of 3s. per Hun. Duty.

Copper Eng. best 5l. 15s. per C.

Ditto ordinary 4l. 14s. per C.

Ditto Barbary 70l. to 80l. 00s. per C.

Iron of Bilboa 14l. 10s. per Ton

Dit of Sweden 15l. 10s. per Ton

Tallow 36s. per C. or 5d. Fat. p. lb.

Country Tallow 3l. 17s. 0d.

Cochineal 17s. 9d. per lb.

Grocery Wares.

Rasins on the Sun 27s. 0d per C.

Ditto Malaga new none

Ditto Smirna new 17s.

Ditto Alacant none

Ditto Lipra new none

Ditto Belvedera none

Currants 37s.

Ditto new none

Prunes French 17s.

Figs none

Sugar Powder best 59s. per C.

Ditto second sort 49s. per C.

Loaf Sugar double refine 09d. Farthing per lb.

Ditto single refin. 60s. to 70s. per C.

Cinamon 7s. 9d.

Cloves 9s. 2d.

Mace 17s. 6d. per lb.

Nutmegs 8s. 7d. per lb.

Sugar Candy white 12d. to 17d.

Ditto brown 6d. Half penny per lb.

Pepper for Home consump 14 d.

Ditto for exportation 10d. H penny

Tea Bohea fine 11s. to 14s. per lb.

Ditto ordinary 10s. per lb.

Ditto Congo 12s. to 16s. per lb.

ditto Pekoe 18s. per lb.

ditto Green fine 12s. to 15s. per lb.

ditto Imperial 14s. per lb.

ditto Hyson 35s.

Drugs by the lb.

Balsam Peru 16s.

Cardamoms 3s. 4d.

Camphire refined 24s.

Crabs Eyes 22s.

Jusop 3s. 9d.

Manna 1s. 6d. to 2s. 6d.

Mastick white 4s. 6d.

Opium 10s. 06d.

Quicksilver 4d. 6d.

Rhuburb 20s. a 22s.

Sarsaparilla 3s. 00d.

Saffron Eng. 26s. 00d.

Wormseeds 4s. 6d.

Balsam Capiva 2s. 10d.

Balsam of Gilliad 14s. 00d.

Hypocacuana 6s. 0d.

Ambergreece per oz. 14s. 00d.

Wine, Brandy, and Rum.

Oporto red, per T. 32l. a 34 l.

ditto white 40l.

Lisbon red 36.

ditto white 26l.

Sherry 27l.

Canary new 28l.

ditto old 36l.

Florence 30l.

French red 36l. a 50l.

ditto white 20l.

Mountain malaga old 24l.

ditto new 23l.

Brandy Fr. per Gal. 6s. to 7s. 6d.

Rum of Jam. 6s. to 7s. 6d.

ditto Lew. Islands 6s. 4d. to 6s.

FOREIGN AFFAIRS.

Constantinople.

IT has been agreed in a great divan to go on with the war in Persia; it being judg'd impracticable to restore to prince Thamas, the conquests of the porte in that kingdom, which have cost so much blood and treasure, without wounding the honour and dignity of the Ottoman empire. 'Tis thought the troubles, which are not yet entirely appeased in this capital, where the number of malecontents is increased since the late massacre of the ringleaders of the revolt, did not a little contribute to this resolution of the divan. The port has declared to the Emperor's resident, that his highness has nothing more at heart than to keep a good intelligence, with his imperial majesty, and that he has with this view sent a trusty officer to Vienna, with the character of his ambassador, to repeat these assurances in the strongest manner.

Paris Feb. 23. There is still the same uncertainty as to peace and war, and the distributing of the effects of the Flotilla, the delay whereof is a great prejudice to the merchants. 'Tis hop'd however that the grand point of peace or war, will be decided upon the return of an express that has been sent to Spain, with the answer of the allies of Seville to the declaration, which the marquess de Castellar made the 28th past, in the name of the king of Spain. Rome, Feb. 10. His holiness declared to cardinal Cinsuegos, that he would take the dutchess dowager of Parma into his protection, and assume the government of that dutchy and Placentia, 'till the differences between the emperor and the king of Spain are adjusted.

Vienna, Feb. 17. The emperor, having by his troops taken possession of Parma and Placentia, the pope threatens to excommunicate those troops; but the emperor says, he may turn the buckle of his girdle behind him.

The Substance of a Declaration deliver'd Jan. 28. In the name of the king of Spain, to the English, French and Dutch Ministers, by the Marquess de Castellar, setting forth,

THat immediately after the Emperor had refused his consent to the pacifick measures entered into by the allies for establishing Don Carlos in the estates of Tuscany and Parma, his catholick majesty might have obferv'd the irresolution of the allies in executing the treaty of Seville, but was willing to see their proceedings, and discover their real designs, before he would take his final resolution.

That the marquess was order'd by the king his master, to represent to the powers allied, that it was at last judged necessary to have recourse to arms, a thing so often promised since the alliance was sign'd and solemnly sworn to: To which purpose he had delivered in a memorial dated Oct. 30. and communicated to the said ministers, the last resolution of his majesty, and has since press'd for an answer, but to no purpose.

That for these and other reasons his majesty had positively commanded the Marques de Castellar formally to protest against proceedings so diametrically opposite to his royal dignity and honour, and destructive of the principal object of his alliance, nor to give place to longer delays.

That in this fix'd resolution his majesty declares, that from this time forward he is entirely free from all the engagements enter'd into on his part in the said treaty, with the confederated powers, and remains at full liberty to take such measures as he shall judge most conducive to his royal interests. In consequence whereof he further declares, that from hence forwards he withdraws from the negotiation which is upon the carpet, but waits to receive the further orders of the catholick king his master.

Extract of a Letter from Nantes. Feb. 24. N.S.

Yesterday we receiv'd advice, that the Queen of Angels had been engaged on the coast of Domingo, by two Spanish privateers, and after a long fight was taken. The captain and great part of the crew were killed in the action. The ship was carry'd to the isle of Cuba, with an English vessel richly laden, which they had lately taken: So that they have 3, 1 of which carries 104 Men. They sent the French ship (after taking out the goods) to St. Domingo, with the English crew.

Letters lately arriv'd from New-England, advise, that on the 29th of December his Excellency, Governor Belcher, made a speech to the general assembly, in which he declared, that he should be oblig'd to dissolve them, if his Majesty's 27th instruction, relating to settling a salary on the governor was not comply'd with: And accordingly on the 2d of Jan. he finding them inflexible, dissolv'd the said Court.

A misunderstanding seems likewise to have taken place between Henry Worsley, Esq; capt. general, and governor in chief of Barbadoes, and other the Caribbee islands, to windward of Gardeloupe, &c. and the council and assembly of those plantations, as appears by his excellency's speech made to them Nov. 17th last, and their address consequent upon it; wherein they seem to charge the governor with those evils which he had recommended them to remedy; and remonstrated that it was impossible for a people loaded with debts, to raise taxes, whilst the yearly tax of about 8000l. for seven years past, had been drain'd from them, and paid to his excellency, and that his excellency had receiv'd 45,000l. of the publick money of that island since his coming to the government: A proof of itself sufficient to evince the impoverishment of a small colony, at a time when upward of 20,000l. more were raised for publick uses, over and besides their constituted annual excise.

Extract of a Letter from Jamaica.

By a small vessel just arriv'd from Paita, we have the dreadful news of the loss of the kingdom of Chili, by an earthquake and inundation; the first lasted 27 days, wherein persons innumerable perished, with all the city of St. Jago; the inundation over flow'd the city of Conception, and even reached as far Calloo, where it mounted the walls, and fill'd the square with water. This flood was occasion'd by the earthquake.

A true Account of a new Colony about to be establish'd in America, by several Noblemen, Gentlemen, and Merchants.

THey petitioned the King in council for a grant of lands in South-Carolina, and liberty to lay out such charities as they themselves should give or receive from others, for carrying over and establishing unfortunate families in America: and that the charity collected may not determine in the persons first relieved, but may extend itself to the latest ages, they propose to reserve a certain proportion of land in every township, and a certain small proportion of labour from every Man within that township upon such land, and to apply all the produce of the reserved land and labour on the supporting of the Colony, in sending over and relieving more poor families.

His Majesty graciously receiv'd their petition, referr'd it to a committee of council, who approv'd of it and referr'd it to the consideration of the Lords Commissioners for Trade and Plantations.

The petitioners undertake without any benefit to themselves, all the toil of solliciting charities, of cloathing, supplying, arming, establishing, and supporting a Colony of such persons as they judge to be most proper objects of charity.

The clerks of the council generously refus'd their fees for the passing of their office.

The secretary of the board for trade and plantations, in the same handsome manner, refused the acknowledgements offer'd him.

His Majesty hath been graciously pleased to order the attorney general to prepare a charter to incorporate the petitioners, who intend to establish Colonies in the manner of the old Romans, viz. liberty and property.

Among other wise precautions, to prevent future Impositions, they have desired, that they and their successors may be oblig'd by their charter to lay an annual account of all moneys or effects by them receiv'd or expended, for carrying on their said charitable design before the Ld Chancellor, the Ld Ch. Justice of the King's-bench, the master of the rolls, the Ld Ch J. of the common pleas, and the Ld. Ch. Baron of the Exchequer.

BOOKS, &c. published in the Month of February.

THE Duel a poem. pr. 6d.

An epistle from little Capt. Brazen, to the worthy Capt. Plume. pr. 6d.

The occasional historian. by Mr. Earbery, No. I.

The Free-masons magick ladder, &c. pr. 4d.

The fall of the E. of Essex, a Tragedy, alter'd from the unhappy favourit of Mr. Banks.

Anti-papismus: or, a letter to the rev. Dr. Trapp, occasioned by his book entitled popery truly stated, &c. pr. 6d.

A defence of Dr. Clark's evidences of natural and revealed religion, in answer to the 14th chap. of christianity as old as the creation. By Henry Stebbing D.D. pr. 1.s.

Some observations on the present state of affairs, &c.

The national debt as is it stood at michaelmas, 1730. stated and explained, pr. 6d.

The history of England, &c. by M. De Rapin Thoyras, done into English by N. Tindal, M.A. Vol. XIV.

The C---ss's speech to her son Roderigo, at her first seeing him after his late duel, &c. pr. 6d.

The new political state of Great Britain, &c. No. XIII. for January.

A new project for effectually preventing the abominable practice of swearing, cursing, and lying, pr. 6d.

The old political state of Great Britain for January.

The London medley, &c. pr. 6d.

A treatise of book-keeping, or merchants accounts, in the Italian method of debtor and creditor, &c. by Al. Malcolm. A.M.

* A short treatise upon arts and sciences French and English, &c. by Jobn Palairet, writing master to their Royal Highnesses the Duke, &c.

The third part of an essay toward a natural history of Florida, Carolina, and the Bahama Ilands, c. by Mr. Catesby.

A sermon preached before the Hon. House of Commons, Jan. 30. by Edw. Littleton, L.L.D. Fellow of Eaton College, &c.

Remains of the late rev. and learned John Edwards, D.D. pr. 6s.

A demonstration of the insufficiency both of reason and revelation, separately or jointly consider'd in matters of religion, with a conclusion showing what is sufficient, pr. 1s.

Thomæ Caii (collegii universitatis regnante Elizabetha Magistri) vindiciæ antiquitatis academiæ Oxon. contra Joannem Caium Cantabrigiensem in lucem ex autographo emisit Tho. Hearne, A.M. &c.

Harlequin Horace, or the art of modern poetry, pr. 1s.

Justice in all its branches, &c. pr. 9d.

A letter to Caleb D'anvers Esq; on his proper reply to a late scurrilous libel, &c. pr. 1s.

Two letters from a deist to his friend, concerning the truth and propagation of deism, &c. pr. 1s.

The works of Tacitus. Vol. II. translated, &c. by Mr Gordon.

Sir Robert Brass, or the intriegues serious and amourous of the knight of the blazing star, &c. in hudibrastick verse..

Memoirs of the life and misfortunes of Mr Pless, the supposed author of a letter to a member of parliament in the North, by a lady pr. 6d.

The travels of Mr John Gulliver, son to Capt, Lemuel Gulliver, &c. translated from the French by Mr. Lockman. In a neat pocket volume.

An epistle to Mr Pope, on reading his translations of the Iliad and Odyssey of Homer, &c.

The parson-hunter a poem, pr. 6d.

The doctor's miscellany, with a quack observatory preface, pr. 1s.

The works of Virgil, translated into english blank verse, with large explanatory notes and critical observations, by Joseph Trapp, D.D. 3 vol. 12mo.

Patriotism delineated, &c. pr. 6d.

Don Carlos de lara: or the Spanish beau: translated from the Spanish of Ruy Diaz, pr. 1s.

The gentleman's magazine; or, traders monthly intelligence, No. 1. for January.

The monthly chronicle for Jan.

Impartial observations on the publick affairs of Great Britain, &c.

The court authors display'd, &c.

Faithful memoirs of the life, amours, and dramatical performances of Mrs Anne Oldfield, &c. by Wm. Egerton, Esq;

Modern history by Mr. Salmon, No. 77 compleats Vol. XIII.

Three poetical epistles to Mr. Hogarth, Mr. Drandilge, and Mr. Lambert, by Mr. Mitchel.

A brief Description of a new, small, yet accurate Quadrant, by E. Pledger.

A Sermon preached before the Lords spiritual and temporal, Jan. 30. by Robert Ld Bp. of Peterborough.

Victory over death, a ground of thankfulness to God, &c. a sermon preach'd at Pinners hall, Jan. 31. by Jeremiah Hunt, D.D.

Pulteney; or the patriot, a poem, by R. Drury, Gent.

A brief account of Mr. John Ginglicutt's treatise concerning the altercation or scolding of the antients, by the author, pr. 6d.

Miscellaneous, poems and translations, by the late rev'd Mr. H. Travers.

Miscellaneous observations on authors ancient and modern, No. 11.

A literary journal for October, November, and December, 1730.

Philosophical transactions, No. 415. for September, and October.

The case of reason; or natural religion faithfully and fully started; in answer to christianity as old as the creation, by William Law, M.A. part I.

The progress of patriotism: a poem.

Tables for standard gold and Silver in bars, compared with the course of exchange, by Thomas Collet, pr. 1s.

A short apology for the common law, with proposals for removing the expence and delay of equity proceedings.

Magna britannia & hibernia antiqua & nova, No. 90.

Mr Francis de la Pilloniere's translation of Plato's republick, or ten books concerning righteousness, &c.

Philotas; a tragedy: by the author of the fall of Saguntum.

The batchelor's recantation; or, his estimate of the expences of a marry'd life Reconsider'd by John Single, Esq; with his and an old maidens advice to all young ones; the virgins prayer, the doctor confuted; or, no cure for love, a young lady's recantation of her resolution to turn nun.

A paraphrase and notes on St. Paul's epistle to Philemon, attempted in imitation of Mr. Lock's manner. Pr. 1s.

A short history of standing armies in England. By Tho. Trenchard, Esq; Printed first in 1698. pr. 1s.

An essay upon something, or something of an essay: being a full answer, &c. to Caleb Danvers, Esq; by Tim. Scrub of Rag-Fair, Esq.

Edmundi episcopi Londinensis ad Dicecesin iuam epistola pastoralis, &c. Latinè reddita ab Hen. Stephens, A.B. e Coll. Mert.

The letters of Atticus, as printed in the London Journal in the years 1729 and 1730, &c.

The Grubstreet Miscellany, in prose and verse, &c. Pr. 1s.

Proposals for engraving by subscription on copper-plates, the works of Horace, from the Cambridge edition in 12mo, published by Dr Talbot in 1701. By J. Pine, engraver.

Preparing for the press, in three volumes in folio, (to perfect the six volumes lately publish'd) a compleat collection of state-trials, &c., from the earliest account of time to the end of the reign of K. George 1.

Sermons on several occasions. by Sam. Clarke, D.D. Vol. VII. and VIII.

Three essays on artificial Philosophy, or universal Chemistry, by Peter Shaw, M.D.

The present state of Europe, &c. for January.

An epistle from a footman in London to the celebrated Stephen Duck, pr 6d.

The compleat abitrator, or the law of awards, &c.

The historical register, Numb. LX.

Literæ de re nummaria; in opposition to the common opinion, that the Denarii Romani were never larger than 7 in an ounce; with some remarks on Dr. Arbuthnot's book and table, &c. By the author of the annals of University college.

A letter from a member of parliament, to the freeholders in his country, on the present state of the nation. Price 1s.

The creditor's advocate, and debtor's friend, &c. Price 6d.

Observations in Gardening for March 1731.

IF we have omitted any of the works directed to be done in the former month, they must not lie any longer delay'd; for by the end of this month, your garden ought to be compleatly cropp'd.

Sow radish, silesia, and imperial lettuce among all the crops you put into the ground, for they will come to perfection, and be gather'd before the other roots and herbs cover them.

Sow scorzonera salsfy and slip skerrits of the last year's growth, leaving only the under fibres, and not any of the greater roots about the plants.

Plant out some colly-flower plants, to succeed those planted in autumn.

Sow pease, beans, and young sallad in some warm place; adding to the small herbs of the last month, spinach, rape and sorrel.

Make plantations of mint, baum, penny-royal, thyme, savory, sage, tanzie, rue, and other durable herbs for houshold-use, except lavender and rosemary, which grow better if set in April.

Towards the middle of this month rake and dress your asparagus beds, for early in April the buds will begin to appear above ground; and if we delay this work to the latter-end of March, many buds must then of necessity be broken off.

To make new plantations in the natural ground, first trench the ground, and lay a good coat of dung at the bottom of the trench, covering it with earth about 6 or 8 inches thick; and when the whole piece is thus prepar'd and levell'd, begin your plantation, allowing ten inches distances between the asparagus plants, and four lines of plants in each bed, leaving two foot between the beds for the allies, and then sow the whole with onions.

Sow cabbages and savory for a winter's crop, and some sellary for early blanching; also, some more collyflower-seed on a declining hot-bed.

Sow chardoons to transplant next month. Now dress your artichoaks, leaving only 3 or 4 suckers on each strong root, slipping off the rest for transplanting and making good the defects in the old plantation.

Refresh the cucumber and melon ridges with hot dung. Transplant lettuce for cabbaging, and to stand for feed.

We may yet transplant timber trees of all sorts, watering them well as soon as planted.

Towards the end of this month sow upon the hot-bed some purslain, nasturtium, African and French marigolds, and sow marigolds in the natural ground. Dress your strawberry-beds, keeping them clean from runners, till the plants blossom, and give them waterings when necessary.

It is now high time to put an end to planting of fruit-trees, and to fill uр all remaining vacancies; and likewise to finish the pruning of peach, nectarines and apricots, according to the directions in the preceding month.

The beginning of this month is also a proper time to prune such plums, pears, and cherries, as have had one year's growth, which is to be done with great discretion, and a due caution to the vigour and weakness of the tree.

It is not now too late to cut off the beads of new planted trees against a wall, and to reduce them to three or four buds. You are now also to prune fig-trees; and what great wood can be spared, is to be cut out entirely to the stem, and the thickest roots of the last ordinarily bear fruit.

Graft apples and cherries this month, the last on the black-cherry, and the first on a crab-stock; but inoculation is a more curious operation.

Now is the time to lay layers of the vine and fig, and to erect horizontal shelters over some of the earliest blossom'd fruit trees, to secure them from nipping frosts, and perpendicular dews.

FAIRS in March and April.

12AT Alesham, Norf.

Bodmin, Cornwal

Wrexham, Denb.

Stopford, Cheshire

13Bedwin, Wilts

Mountbowin, Cornw.

Wye, Kent

17Cobham, Surry

Malmsbury, Wiltshire

Patrington, Yorkshire

18Sturbridge, Worcest.

20Durham

Northmore

22Tocester, Northamp.

24Northfleet, Kent

Llanerchemich

25Ashwell, Hartfordsh.

Axbridge, Somersetsh.

Bishop's-lidiard, Som.

Bridport, Dorsetshire

Caerfilly, Glamorg.

Croscomb, Som.

Clack, Wiltshire

Chagford, Devon.

Gloucester

Great-chart, Glouc.

Huntington

Lamberhurst, Kent

Maidon, Essex

Malpas, Cheshire

Montgomery

Midhurst, Sussex

Northil

Northampion

Newcastle, Northumb.

Oulney, Bucks

Plympton, Devonshire

Sithick, Hampshire

St. Albans, Hertford.

Sea-saltre, Kent

St. John's Worcest.

Salisbury, Wilts

Walden, Essex

Wigmore, Monm.

Watlington, Oxford,

Woodstock, ib.

Wadley, Berkshire

Wigburn

Wichwar, Glouc.

26Cardigan

27Atherton, Warwick.

Bakewel, Derbyshire

Derby

29 Whitland

APRIL

2Epping, Essex

Hitchin, Hartf.

Northfleet, Kent

Rochford, Essex

3 Borne, Lincolnshire

Leek, Staffordsh.

Northampton

4 Bewley, Hampshire

5 Wallingford, Berks.

6 Wareham, Devon.

7 Clare, Suffolk

Derby

8 Fennystratford, Bucks

9 Billingsworth

Cobham, Surry

10 Sheepwash, Devonsh.

11 Aberforth, Yorkshire

Pontypool, Monmouth

Warmister, Wilts

12 Downham, Wilts

Moveable Fairs.

Bodmin, Cornw. Saturday after midlent Sunday

Andover, Hampsh. Friday before midlent Sunday

Magron, Monm. every Monday in Lent

Beverly, every Wednesday from the beginning of Lent to Midsummer

Brighthelmstone, Suff. 5th Sunday in Lent

Cerne, Dorsetsh, midlent Sunday

Dolton, Dev. Wednesday before Lady Day

Dalton, Lanc. ditto

Castle Cary, Som. Tuesday before Palm Sunday

Denbigh, the Monday before Lady Day

Eltham, Kent the Monday after Palm Sunday

Grantham, Lincolnsh. 5th Sunday in Lent

Helstone, Cornw, Saturday before midlent Sunday, and Saturday before Palm Sunday

Hartford, Saturday before 5th Sunday in Lent

Ilchefter, Som. Monday before Palm Sunday

Kendal, Westmor. the Monday before Lady Day

Kingston upon Thames, Palm Sunday

Liscard. Cornw. Monday before Palm Sunday

Leicester, Palm Sunday

Leominster, Here. Tuesday before midlent Sunday

Lancaster, Palm Sunday April 11.

Landaron, ditto

Landissel, Thursday before Palm Sunday

Langport, Som. Second Sunday in clear Lent

Minster, in the isle of Shippey in Kent, Palm Monday

Market-jew, Cornw. Palm-Monday

Ottery St Mary, Devon. Tuesday before Palm Sunday

Milling, Dorfetsh. Palm Sunday, being the 11th of April

Mount, Cornw. Monday after midlent Sunday

Northallerton. Yorksh. every Wednes. til June

Newport, Hampsh. Palm Sunday

Newark, Nott. Tuesday Sevennight before Palm Sunday

Odiam Hamps. Saturday before midlent Sunday

Pontefract, Yorksh. Palm Sunday

Somerton, Som. Tuesday after Palm Sunday

Stamford, Lincolnsh. midlent Sunday

Sudbury, Gloucest. the 5th Sunday in Lent

Saffronwalden, Ess. midlent Sunday

Salisbury, Wiltsh. Monday before Lady-day

Shaftsbury, Dorfetsh. Saturday before Palm-Sunday

Truro, Cornw. Wednesday after midlent Sunday

Worcester, Saturday before Palm-Sunday

Wimbleton, Surr. Monday after Lady Day

Yarmouth, Norf. Thursday before Lady Day

Yarm, Yorksh. Thursday after Lady Day

N.B. It being very difficult to get an exact and unalterable List of the Fairs in England, we shall be oblig'd to our Correspondents, if they will pleasure us with an account of any not here inserted, or such as are alter'd or difus'd. And here we think it proper to acknowledge the receipt of several ingenious pieces of poetry, &c. which we have, and fall insert, as opportunity serves.

