The Gentleman's Magazine, Volume 1 — April, 1731

Exported from Wikisource on May 13, 2026

* * *

THE

Gentleman's Magazine:

Or, TRADER's

Monthly Intelligencer.

* * *

Numb. IV. for APRIL, 1731.

* * *

CONTAINING,

I. A View of the Weekly Essays and Controversies. viz. Of Predictions; Astrology; Female Modesty, and Extravagance; Abritrary Government; Peace; the Emperor; Gibraltar; Elocution; Disrespect to the Clergy; Eminent Characters; the Bible; Self-knowledge; Select Vestries; British Colonies; Pension-Bill; Dr. Sh———k D. of Marlbro. Ld. Godolphin; Sir. Is. Newton; Pedlars and Shopkeepers; Priests, Physicians Tythes; the Craftsman and his Adversaries; Iron and Woollen Manufacture; Pawnbrokers; the State of Ireland, &c.

II. Poetry; Prologues, Epilogues, Epitaphs, Epigrams; Henley's God, Bath, Beauties.

III. Domestic Occurrences, Births, Deaths, Marriages, Preferments, Casualties, Acts pass'd, Burials & Christenings.

IV. Prices of Goods, Grain and Stocks, a List of Bankrupts.

V. Trials and Executions.

VI. Foreign Affairs.

VII. Account of Earthquakes, and some Jesuitical Exploits.

VIII. Books, &c. publish'd.

IX. Observations in Gardening, and a List of Fairs for the Season.

X. A Table of Contents.

* * *

By SYLVANUS URBAN of Aldermanbury, Gent.

* * *

Prodesse & Delectare.

* * *

The Second Edition.

* * *

The CONTENTS.

PRedictions exposed 145

Of the Scurvy ib.

Of Astrology ib.

Female Extravagance 146

Case of Batchelors ib.

Of Disorders in Government ib.

A worthy Action of John Philpot ib.

The E. of Suffolk impeach'd 147

Chief Justice hang'd ib.

Craftsman's Triumph on the Peace 147

Answered, the Peace defended 148

Verses by way of Simile ib.

——— Answered ib.

Of Gibralter and the Emperor 149

Of commendable Actions ib.

Grobean Writings 150

Female Modesty ib.

A Nurse's Speech to an Alderman's Childe ib.

K. Jam I. 151

——— His Pretensions to Hereditary Right. His Attempt against the H. of Commons, and his Design of uniting the two Kingdoms ib.

Of Respect to Clergymen ib.

A Story of St. Augustine 152

——— Of Wat Tyler and Jack Straw ib.

——— Of St Bartholomew ib.

——— Of Erasmus ib.

Father Paul's Opinion ib.

Of Writers ib.

Different Motives of writing ib.

Taste, a Description of it ib.

Shakespear and Johnson their different Talents 153

Irish Verses on a Lawyer's Motto ib.

On Henly's God 154

Remarks on K. James I. ib.

The Modern prevailing Taste ib.

Of the Bible 155

Of Self-Knowledge ib.

Several Instances wherein defective ib.

Too much Money ruinous to a Nation 156

Of the British Sugar Colonies 157

Remarks on the Reign of K. James I. 158

A Farewel to French Kicks ib.

The Case of Auth. Collins and Richard Tindal ib. and 159

Select Vestry, their Management 159

Sir Is. Newton's Monument describ'd ib.

His Monumental Epitaph 160

Others proposed 169

The D. of Marlborough and E. of Godolphin's Conduct examin'd 160

Court Mourning 161

The Craftsman's Thoughts about the Peace ib. and 162

Of Opposition to Courts, and Independency of Parliaments 162

The Case of Mr. Healy, his Character by Mr. Pope 163

Of Bankruptcy 164

Remarks on the Bill about Tythes ib.

Apology for Pawn-brokers 165

The present State of Ireland, Woollen-Manufacture 166

Mr. Fallowfield Proposals for making Iron ib.

Mr. Wood's Proposals pro Ditto 167

Mr. Tompkyn's Remarks on Mr. Wood's Project, and his own Proposal ib.

Remarkable Advertisement ib.

Prologue and Epilogue to Euridice 168

The amorous Duelists 169

Epigrams ib.

Epitaph on the D. of Schomberg buried in St. Patrick's Church Dublin 169

Bath Beauties 170

On Wit ib.

Epitaph on an Infant ib.

Bill of Mortality ib.

Domestick Occurrences 171, 172

Bank and India Directors 171

The Westminster Infirmary 172

Deaths 173

Promotions 174

Ecclesiastical Preferments 175

Casualties 176

Marriages and Bankrupts 177

Of Criminals try'd and Executed 178

Foreign Affairs 179

Some Jesuitical Pranks ib.

Extract of a Treaty of Peace between the Emperor and King of Great Britain 180

Books publish'd 181, 182

Fairs in May and June 183

Fairs and Gardening 184

* * *

* * *

* * *

THE

Gentleman's Magazine:

APRIL, 1731.

* * *

A View of the Weekly ESSAYS in this Month.

The Grub-street Journal, Thursday April 3. No. 65.

Of Predictions.

MR. Bickerstaff having in the three preceding months stated his own predictions against those of the common Almanack-makers, in this exposes the contradictions in two of the most noted ones, viz. Gadbury and Partridge, then insinuates the truth of his own observations on the present month; and assures the reader that his predictions will be exactly fulfill'd, some of which are the following, viz. 'An eminent grubean orater, who was born the first day of this month, is on this day taken very ill, grows delirious, and raves mightily. I apprehend be will dye on the 29th, about six in the morning. A beautiful young lady is married to an old dotard; and our sickly brother, the Weekly Register, will die this month.

Upon reading these predictions, the society was mightily troubled at the approaching fate of their admired orator, when Dr. Moore inform'd them that the Orator had for some time been troubled with the scurvy, a disease which causes weariness, sense of weight, and a dull obscure pain; but that he had not been able to prevail with him to take his anti scorbutic spirit, which relieves hypocondriac and hysteric illnesses proceeding from the scurvy.

Read's Journal, Saturday April 3.

TReats of Astrology, as a science necessary to be studied by practitioners in physick. Asserts, that celestial bodies, have an influential force, and explains the reason of some of those effects by the rules of this art: As first, if the stars are not allow'd an influence, to what can we attribute the difference of cold and heat, and variety of weather in successive summers and winters? That it does not proceed from the Sun, because that luminary constantly moves in the same circle.

To judge of the various alterations in the Air, directs us to observe the following rules.

1. The rectitude, or obliquity of the rays of both the sun and planets.

2. To note their duration above or under the horizon; the more prependicular their beams, the greater their force.

3. To remark their remotion from, or proximity to the earth; because by their distance we are to judge of their force.

4. Their orientality, or occidentality in respect of the sun; for as they follow or rise before the sun, mornings are colder or warmer.

5. When planets are slow in motion, stationary, or retrograde, they augment the violence of the weather, according to the nature of planets; the nearer the earth, the greater their force.

6. The mutual aspects of the planets, and how they behold the earth, the fixed stars, their magnitude, colour, altitude, and distance from the ecliptick and equinox.

Says, That when the planets are near the tropic of Cancer, they produce the most sensible effects; as impetuous winds, and high tides.

Infers, that whoever would be a proficient in Astrology, ought to be a scholar, and recommends to his perusal, Morinus's Aftrologia Gallica, Dr Goad's works, Sir. Christ. Heydon's, Sir George Wharton's, and a small piece call'd A Demonstration of Astrology.

Female Extravagance, &c.

Universal Spectator Ap. 3. No. 127.

HAving in a former paper, (See p. 60) publish'd a scheme for promoting matrimony, by honouring and rewarding those that enter into it, and requiring certain fines and services from perverse batchelors, in this he gives us a picture of their condition, as drawn by Dr. Toung, in his Estimate of human Life, wherein he calls celebacy a desart, melancholy, and disconsolate state, (See the Batchelor's Recantation, &c. Pr. 6d.) void of all those tender and affectionate joys which arise in a conjugal life. To this our author subjoins a petition from several batchelors, complaining of being slighted by the fair sex, for want of estates to make jointures, and therefore offer their joint request, that the women may not by any publick act be allow'd to court, since they have made so indiscreet a use of the toleration for some time past allow'd them; that pin-money, and separate maintenance be utterly abolish'd; that quadrille tables be put down; that sumptuary laws be made to reduce the women to a decent habit, and reasonable expences; and to determine how far Mrs. Gage, the exciseman's wife, may walk on foot in London; that a stop be put to the ruinous practice of setting up a coach immediately upon marrying, unless by people of large estates; that one shilling in the pound out of the land tax be allow'd for securing joyntures for their wives, before any are obliged to marry for the publick good; and lastly, that a clause be added to exempt the petitioners from all penalties, till the women are pleased to accept of such maintenance as shal be most adequate to the circumstances of their intended husbands.

(Of Governments turning arbitrary)

Fog's Journal, April 3. No 22.

Tells us from Machiavel, that when a free and limited Government is degenerating into arbitrary, it declines in reputation; its best circumstance is, that it makes advancement in Empire, but the most general consequence is, that it sinks in wealth as well as fame and power.

Things ill begun, strengthen themselves by ill.

Instances the history of the unfortunate K. Richard II. whose Ministers having begun a disorderly Administration, could not stop there, for liberty and male-administration cannot long subsift together.

Observes particularly the steps they took.—Says, That these were not only ignorant themselves, but kept all truth from the ears of their master, whereby publick affairs were unsuccessfully manag'd both abroad and at home.

Mentions a remarkable action of one John Philpot, a brave and worthy Alderman of London, whose effects had been plunder'd on the seas, and finding no likelihood of redress, fitted out a Fleet at his own charge, well arm'd and mann'd, went on board himself, and sailing out of the channel, took many rich prizes from the Spaniards, which more than made good his former losses, and the expences of his expedition. On his return he was seiz'd by order of the Privy Council, and examin'd, why, with out a Commission, or Letter of Marque, he had committed hostilities against the Spaniards? he resolutely answered, That when men could not obtain protection or justice from others, they were, by the laws of nature, allow'd to seek it themselves; and was thereupon all dismiss'd.

Again, While publick Affairs were thus languishing, nothing was seen at court but luxury of all kinds, which introduc'd cowardice and effeminacy; that the Parliament, upon enquiring into the state of the nation, found it miserably impoverish'd, but the ministers immeasurably rich; they impeach'd the E. of Suffolk, and desired the King to banish him and the Arch bishop of York out of the Kingdom; but breaking up, their representations were disregarded, and the Judges wrought upon to declare that the King might disannul the proceedings of parliament, giving as a reason, That the King was above all Law.

Says, that this occasion'd a general confederacy among the Nobility and Commons, to rescue their country from slavery; that being met in parliament, they impeach'd the Earl of Suffolk, the D. of Ireland, the A. Bp. of York, and the Chief Justice Tresillion, which last they caused to be hanged at Tyburn.

From whence, lastly, he infers, that if ever the parliament should alienate itself from the people, and grow dependant on the crown, from that minute the government is arbitrary.

Craftsman's triumph on the Peace.

Craftsman, Sat. April 3. No. 248.

HAS a letter, sign'd Anglo-Germanicus, congratulating Mr. D'anvers on the late peace concluded at Vienna, and him in particular, because we are told, it is such a peace as he had pointed out, and recommended to the consideration of the gentlemen in the direction of Affairs; that is, a general treaty of Peace, containing a definitive accommodation of differences, a reparation for losses, a confirmation of our interests, and a specifick recognition of those rights which have been disputed.

Doubts not but the good effects of this Peace will soon discover themselves, by the immediate discharge of the Hessian Troops, and a reduction of our Land-forces; that Dunkirk will be effectually demolish'd; the Colony of Santa Lucia withdrawn; the Forts lately erected near Gibraltar levell'd with the ground; the Defect in the treaty of Utrecht supply'd by the grant of a proper District of Ground round that Garrison; that our Merchants may receive full satisfaction, and have liberty unmolested, to exercise their undoubted right of trade.

Expresses his surprise, that the writers on the other side should affect to triumph over him, whereas all his papers that have regard to the court of Vienna, are amply justified by the present conduct and measures of their own patron.

Wishes Mr. D'anvers joy on account of his Hague Letter, concerning a negotiation at Vienna, since it does not appear that any other powers have acceded to it than Great Britain and the Emperor, and therefore cannot he called a general peace till the rest have accepted it.

Says, 'tis very probable the Dutch will accede to it; and 'tis wish'd that France may prove in the same dispositon, tho' at present they don't seem to relish it.

Repeats what he had heard said, that if we are right with the other powers, we have no reason to stand in fear of France; but he queries as the design of the treaty of Seville was abstructed by the want of one accession, whether the treaty of Vienna may not prove equally effectual for want of another.

Doubts not the concurrence of Spain, if the immediate succession of Don Carlos to the dominions of Tuscany and Parma be the price of it, but questions whether the successor of his present catholick Majesty will think himself at all oblig'd to Great Britain on this account.

The Peace defended, Craftsman answer'd.

The London Journal, Sat. April, 3. No. 610.

IN a Letter inscrib'd to a Country Gentleman concerning the Peace, Mr. Osborne congratulates him upon the happy conclusion of the embarass'd affairs of Europe, brought about by the wisdom and steady resolution of the ministry.

Owns what is wrote in favour of men in power, is believed with difficulty, yet plain truths should need no apology. The abilities of the ministers appear greater in adjusting differences by negotiation, than by entring into a war; as 'tis more eligible to treat for ever, than fight for ever.

Says, 'tis more particularly the interest of our nation to be at peace, as our Trade and Commerce are more extensive than any other kingdom in the world. That if we cann't make up all differences at once, to adjust as many as we are able, and agree with those powers first where our strongest interest lies. This we did in the treaty of Seville by an expedient to gratify Spain; and the Emperor has thought it his greatest interest to comply. That the alliances entred into for this end were not unnatural nor unreasonable; nor the expeditions abroad, nor our Fleet at Spithead ridiculous, if they were necessary to obtain the end; for 'twould be absurd to treat with armed nations, ourselves unarmed.

As to the common saying, Who is to pay the piper? and the insinuation which Mr. D'anvers has put into the following Metre:

  'Tis but by way of SIMILE.

 Have you not seen at Country Wake,

A crew of Dancers merry make?

They figure in, and figure out,

Go back to back, and turn about;

They set; take hands, they cross, change sides;

[1]Each Movement a scrub Minstrel guides.

Around the measur'd Lab'rinth trace,

'Till each regains his former place.

So certain Potentates (two couple)

Leagu'd in alliance, hight Quadruple,

After a Maze of Treaties run,

Are e'en just where they first begun.

I wo'nt affirm who led the Dance,

Yes, for the Rhyme, suppose it F--ce:

But this I day at least to say,

O-d E--d must the Piper pay.

To this Mr. Osborne replies.—let us first know who the piper is; then adds, 'tis vile to suppofe the worst of mankind; and that if we are just where we begun, 'tis very well, if that is where we ought to be.

Mentions another scurrilous insinuation, that a certain great projective and state empirick designs to propose a general excise, under a pretence of taking off the land-tax.

To this he answers, that most men of sense in the kingdom are of opinion that a general Excise would be the most equal way of taxing, for then every person would pay taxes in proportion to what he consum'd. What the Craftsman had said of Excisemen influencing elections, is ridiculous, they being a race of men the most contemptible, without money, sense, or eloquence, and generally strangers where they are placed.

As to the Craftsman's objection, that the expences of the government are increas'd, says, 'twould be a miracle if they were not, for they must increase as the expences of the people increafe; 100,000 l. in Q. Elizabeth's time, was equal to six or eight now.

* * *

of Gibralter, the Emperor, Peace.

Free Briton, Thurs. Apr. 8. No. 71.

HAs a letter from a correspondent who subscribes himself W. Temple, which begins with giving him joy of the peace.

Observes that the triumph which the Craftsman raises, is, that it is such a peace as he has long pointed out; as if, says our author, no body understood what plan of accommodation was best for the interest of Britain and Europe, till he dictated it to the ministry.

That our being reconcil'd with a Prince whom we had treated with resentment and reproach, ought not to be a conclusion that his Imperial Majesty has been wrong'd or ill-used by the British ministry.

Thinks it is his duty, as it is his right, to express himself with indignation and disdain against Princes at enmity with Britain, but is, and ought to be reconcil'd, when his country is.

As to the Craftsman's suggestion, that from this treaty much is to be expected, our author says, more perhaps than any man but himself would ever have mention'd; but adds, that if the late Ld Tr. Oxford, and the Ld Vis. Bolingbroke, could not gain an inch of ground about Gibralter; if they could not effectually demolish Dunkirk; if they could not recover the British right to the Island of Santa Lucia, when they were at the head of a glorious confederacy, who is it to be expected from? Shall it be a high crime and misdemeanour in this administration, nor to make good the defects of treaties concluded by such ministers?

Says, this peace is owing to the success of his Majesty's ministers; the law to prevent loans of British treasure to foreign Princes; the continuance of the Hessian troops in our pay; and the resolution shown to execute the treaty of Seville.

The authors of the Craftsman having from this convention, taken an occasion to vindicate their Hague-Letter, wherein they asserted the peace to be secret, clandestine and separate, because only the Imperial and British Ministers have sign'd it; replies, that in this treaty Great Britain, Germany and Holland, agree to allow Spain whatever she desires; and France is invited to accede; therefore this treaty is general and not separate.

Answers the Craftsman's question, What made the treaty of Utrecht a separate peace? That it was grounded on a separate, secret and fraudulent agreement, concluded privately, in breach of the grand Alliance, and the British Faith.

As to the works raised near Gibralter, says, that their foundations being laid in the sand, they were (or wou'd be) presently destroy'd.

Weekly Register, Sat. Apr. 10. No. 12.

Of commendable Actions.

IN this paper the author describes the true province of a Register, which, he says, is to methodize and record the transactions of the publick, and assign every particular person the applause or censure that results from his deeds. For example, should a Tradesman be honest against his interest; a Lawyer refuse a fee, and a bad cause together; a Physician turn his chariot to see a poor friend gratis; a Divine decline a dipensation for pluralities; a Beau remember he ever had been at school; a Scholar be a gentleman; a Philosopher sacrifice theory to truth; an Historian be impartial to his own times; a Poet make a dedication without flattery or falshood; a Courtier faithful to his promise; or a Statesman reward Merit without importunity or ostentation: Such things deserve to be recorded, and are worthy a Register: But if none of these occur, says, he will take t'other side of the question, and expose vice.

Of Grubean Writings and Eloquence.

Grubstreet Journal, Apr. 8. No.66.

PUrsues his remarks, on a Book entitled Harlequin Horace; says, that the author's principal design is to ensnare and expose the members of their society, and carry on the cause of Anti-grubeanism, begun by the Dunciad. To ward therefore against the ill effects which this piece may produce in prejudice to their society, labours to refine and unvenom many things in the said writer.

Acknowledges that the author is just enough in his catalogue of writers for our imitation, when he substitutes in the room of Homer, and other ancient scriblers, Blackmore, Namby-Pamby, Tibbald, and Duck.

Quotes a couplet which imitates the stile of Blakmore, who, Dryden us'd to say, wrote to the rumbling of his Chariot-wheels; and which the author of the Dispensary confess'd had fuch magical charms as might be used in an incantation for raising a spectre.

His attempting to write in imitation of Namby-Pamby's pastorals, our author says, was foolish, because incapable of falling into his rustick simplicity.

His reflection on Mr. Tibbald, as if he did things by halves, Mr. Bavius says, is malicious and groundless, in as much as his subscribers are ready to testify that he is far from having done half of any thing he ever undertook, having seen no more than his proposals and specimen.

As to the uncommon lack of charming the royal car, which this Harlequin writer has granted to Stephen Duck, our author conjectures was only owing to the choice of his subject; Things done by man of God for Shunamite, Her Majesty, out of her exemplary piety, having always manifested her extraordinary regard for religious productions.

§. Concludes with some remarks on theatrical entertainments, particularly on Perseus, and would have it known by posterity, that in the year 1730, the simplicity and innocence of our women was at such a pitch, that they could appear for threescore nights together at a baudy entertainment, in which the most lascivious acts, nearly tending to copulation it self, were repeatedly represented; and of which they were so entirely ignorant and unexperienc'd, that they could not guess what it meant, nor were so much as put to the expence of a blush.

A NURSE's Speech to an Alderman's Child, while he was undressing it; taken in writing from her own mouth.

Child cries, Nurse sings, Lully Baby bunting, Father's gone a hunting,

Dids 'em, dids 'em vex my child? what does my child cry for? Did 'em take my child's hobby-horse? O de blessing on it, 'tshall have it den again, and ride abroad with it nown Pappa;—Go naughty daddy, go; what ride abroad, and not take it nown child with it? We'll tell Mamma.—It shall be a Lord Mayor it self some time or other, and ride in its own coach; ay that it shall, and its nown Nuse shall ride with it. Child cries louder] Hush-aden! Hush-aden! won't it be a Lord-Mayor? It shan't be a Lord-Mayor; it shall be any thing so it won't cry so, Hush aden, did I say it should be a Lord-Mayor, and 'front mine zown child? It shan't be a Lord-Mayor, it shall be a Judge or a Bishop: for I'm sure my child would make as good a Judge or Bishop as any Judge or Bishop whatever,—Dod a bless it, 'tis quieter now; ay, ay, it shall be a Bishop, and old Nurse will make it so, Hush a-den, what if an old Woman should make it so? [Nurse having stript it,it cries louder than before] Well, Ld ha' mercy on me, who'd be a Nurse? The Oh thee'rt a tiresome Brat, what never leave crying?—Well, I won't huff it no more, come den piss in the fire like a man.

Bavius adds, This Nurse is thought to have been formerly the Wife of a Butcher in Newport-market, and to have frequented the Oratory, where she imbibed these sentiments concerning Judges and Bishops, and improved her natural, strain of Eloquence.

(K. James I. Hereditary Right)

The Craftsman Saturday, April. 10. No. 248

PUrsues his remarks (See p. 64, 106, 114) on the Reign of K. James I. and affirms, that the fundamental principle on which he affected to establish his authority, was that of an hereditary right to the crown, tho' contradicted in many instances. Two families indeed furnish'd all our kings, but constituted no hereditary right.

Says, the British race began in Henry VII. and from him alone K. James derived his right, which was a false foundation; for Henry had no colour to hereditary right, except what came by his wife, and her's objected to, none of his successors laying any stress on it.

Observes, that K. James, from the notion of independent right, deduced the notion of independent authority; the inference this, that an independent King must be accountable to God alone, not to man.

Adds, that from the multitude, nature, and stile of his Proclamations, the acts of Power which he exercised, manifested that he intended to lay such foundations: That however he had the demerit of beginning a struggle between Prerogative and Privilege, and establishing a sort of Warfare between Prince and People: But the Spirit of Liberty baffled all his Designs.

Mentions one attempt upon the privileges of the H. of Commons in the case of Elections, viz. that in his calling his first Parliament he assumed an unjustifiable Prerogative by his manner of prescribing to the Electors and Elected; by subjecting both to severe penalties, if they fail'd, tho' against Law and the true meaning of his own Proclamation; and by his general conduct in that Session endeavour'd to put this Prerogative in execution, in order to create a dependance of the Parliament; but by asserting their Privileges, they prevented it.

Concludes, that his design of uniting the two Kingdoms fail'd, for reasons drawn from the jealousies of the Times, and from the King's Declaration that all post nati, or persons born since his accession to the English Throne, were naturalized in the two Kingdoms; and that from hence began that conduct between the Court and Parliament, which ended in a civil War.

Of Disrespect to the Clergy.

Fog's Journal Sat. Ap. 10. No. 124.

IS usher'd in with an observation, that when a nation grows famous either for arms or wisdom, every native is consider'd and treated with respect abroad.—On the other side, when a common-wealth sinks into contempt, every individual shares some part of the disgrace.

Applies this to things sacred, and says, the truth of the purest religion in the World will become suspected, while a profligate priesthood is in its ministry, and its dignitaries ambitious of nothing but fat Benefices.

Tells a story of Augustin the Monk, having one day gone to several places in the city, and returning to his convent, his companion ask'd him, why he had not preach'd that day; a Layman, who over-heard the question, answer'd, He has preached, and preaches every day; for the people are better edified, and more convinc'd of the truth of the Gospel, by the example of his life and manners, than by all your Sermons.

No virtue, says he, draws so much reverence on the priesthood, as appearing disinterested in worldly affairs; and observes, that in the rebellion of Wat. Tyler, and Jack Straw, they determined to destroy the Bishops and Rectors of rich parishes, but to spare the mendicant Friers, because their lives seemed conformable to their preaching.

Mentions a saying of Ignat. Loyola, founder of the Jesuits Order, if he had four companions entirely detach'd from all worldly interests he would not despair of being able to convert the whole World.

Believes, that this virtue, in the primitive fathers, contributed more towards planting the Christian Religion, than all their Writings and Preaching. As a proof hereof, introduces St. Bartholomew travelling and preaching the Gospel in the Indies, where, at a certain court, the King's Daughter had long languish'd under a a distemper which the physicians and Brachmans had in vain endeavour'd to heal. St. Bartholomew cur'd her with a miracle; for which the King offer'd him a great sum of gold: The saint refused it, signifying, that the priests of Jesus sought not riches in this World; upon which the King immediately believed and was baptized.

Another instance he mentions of Disinterestedness in Religion, is, of Philip de Neri, who endeared him to his countrymen the Florentines, by declining to be Heir to his Kinsman; for that Religion and Riches suited but ill together. And Erasmus refused to go to Rome, when his friend and fellow-student, Hadrian, was pope, thinking it a disgrace to hunt after the dignities of the church.

Concludes with the opinion of father Paul, the Venetian, who thinks just that Bishopricks, and other rich Livings, should be charg'd with Pensions for the support of the poor inferior Clergy.

The London Journal, Sat. April 10 No. 611.

Reflections on the Writers for and against the Court.

OBserves, that the prejudices in favour of some opinions, and against some persons, are so strong, that 'tis with great Difficulty truth is received; but the prevailing Prejudice is, That writers for a court are slavish venal prostitutes; and writers again the court are men of generous sentiments and probity.

This, Mr. Osborne says is false, for there are persons who will go greater lengths against the good of their country, in spite and resentment to men in power, than mere venal writers can go for bread. Pride and ambition drive men on to more prodigious wickedness than want; and the passion of revenge is so powerful and delicious, that the Spaniards have a proverb, God keep it to himself.

Justifies the present Ministry from such imputations, and is convinced that they have always liberty and publick happiness at heart.

The remaining part of this Journal is a recapitulation of several arguments he had used in foregoing papers, in justification of the Ministry, their measures and conduct, both in foreign and domestick affairs; for which we refer our readers to p. 7, 54, 100. and to the Free Briton, p. 16, 17, 52, 63, 67 .

The Universal Spectator, April 10.

Of TASTE in Plays.

IN Page 55 is an Essay on Taste in general, from the Register, the Spectator here describes the wrong turn it has taken among us at present. Taste, he says, is taken for a capacity in judging of such pieces as we either read in the Closet, or behold on the Stage; that the approbation of just and fine sentiments cloathed in a corresponding elegancy of expression, is a certain sign of a good Taste, as the applauding of vicious and improper thoughts is an evidence of a bad one.

Asserts, that Shakespear and Johnson are the only two dramatic writers who have not been equall'd, at least excell'd by any since their times.

That their talents consist in keeping nature in view, in the propriety of their thoughts, and in entring into the spirit of whatever character they represent.

That Shakespear excell'd in the marvellous boldness of his invention, and the admirable energy of his expression; Johnson in his prodigious art of weaving his Plots, and a nice distinction of Characters.

Observes, that in the dramatic Poets who succeeded them there was a vast alteration for the worst; their Heroes were Almanzors, and their fine Gentlemen Doriments; the one a creature altogether out of Nature, and the other a disgrace to it.

The sourse of their errors, he says, is the prevailing false Taste of mankind, or the want of courage or honesty in authors. To prove which produces Mr. Addison as an instance, who at once, by his Cato, plac'd himself on a level with the greatest authors, and restor'd in his audience a just and true Taste of Poetry.

Mentions a fault which the criticks have found in the writers of the last age, which however, he confesses, is totally expunged in this, that is, a redundancy of wit.

Gives several instances of the badness of modern Taste, as the Beggar's Opera, &c. from whence he solves that paradox, that the most applauded pieces for some years past in our Theatres, ahve not been the compositions of Poets but Dancing-masters.

Concludes that every ill Play that's printed, records its author for a blockhead, and every mean performance that's applauded, is a libel of the audience upon themselves.

* * *

Grubstreet Journal, April 15. No. 67.

§. 1

COnsists of a description of the antient town of Edinburgh, in the true northern dialect, hardly intelligible by any but natives of that country. See a Specimen in the Scots proclamation, p. 125 No. III.

§. 2. On Deus vidit lucem bonam, the motto on a great lawyer's coach,

Arra now Countryman Abel I shwear, O Hone, O Honem,

What the dev'l dost thou mean by lucem bonam?

Now the De'll take me, and all the shaint Patricks and St. Dennis's.

If thou haft not stollen this motto of thine out of God's book of Genesis.

And now, what have you to do with God's book, that follow the Law?

Could you not have pick'd out of Cook for thy purpose an old See saw?

But thou must transfer apiece of the bible, now I shwear by the Virg. Mary.

Tish a great shin against the Church, to turn the bible into Tipperary.

And now dear Joy, I will be about giving home advice on thy coach-door,

Let thy motto be just like thyself, that is, after as it was before.

CAIN O KETTLEHEAD.

§. 3. Rogiero Drury's explanatory remarks on a print intitled The new grand triumphal Arch, or, The Stage's glory, humbly inscrib'd to Harlequin, the hero of the piece.

Al'illustre, magnanime & heroique Arlequin, &c.

To the noble, great, and heroick Harlequin, Baron of Bonny Looks, Master of the poetical Academy, Director of the Drama, sole Manager of the Stage, high and lofty Subject of theartical Performances; the Town's grand Diversion; most gallant with the fair Sex; Tatler full of refin'd Eloquence, favourite Buffoon of Momus, Mercury's chief Agent; Fortune's Property; Captain-general of the Fop's; renown'd for slight of Hand; celebrated Bite; famous Bragadocio; Sharper of the highest Rank, &c. this trophy is presented by Matthew Tirefare, alias Timothy Squirtwell.

§4. On the curious Sermon at the Oratory. concerning the unknown God, on Sunday, March 24th.

 When from gilt Tub sublime in Masquerade,

Tully reviv'd the unknown God display'd,

Clare-Butchers mixt with Saints of Drury-lane,

Astinish'd heard the learned lofty Strain,

Which, like the Theme, th' Athenian God unknown

Still left, but manifested plain his own.

§ 5. Makes some Remarks on Mr. Henley's further Defence against his Detractors and concludes with the following Distich translated from Martial:

'Gainst me to prate or print is H- said?

He neither do's, who's neither heard nor read.

Craftsman, Sat. Apr. 17. No. 250.

PRoceeds in his Remarks on King James's reign, which, in his last paper, having brought down to the year 1614, stopt there, because it seems to be the very diametrical point of opposition, when the distrust between him and his people was now entirely formed; his and their pretensions explain'd; an union betwixt him and his people grown desperate; between court and parliament impracticable.

From this disorder in government, and national confusion, may be dated the ruin of the constitution, which soon after ensued; which he charges to the misconduct of the King, and not to any ill temper of the people.

He open'd the Parliament, 1614, by asking money for the portion, and other expences of his daughter's marriage to the Elector Palatine, and that granted, the Commons should have leave to enquire into Grievances: But they resolv'd to begin the sessions by a representation of Grievances.

Another article of Complaint was the growth of Popery, and the King's employing Roman Catholicks in offices of trust, and his avowed design of marrying his son to a princess of that religion.

Another head of Grievances were the Monopolies, and illegal exactions from the people, who had no other way to resent them than by the mouth of the Parliament, which, he says, the King would have laid aside, could he have supplied his wants without it.

A third grievance was, the incredible waste which K. James made of the Revenues of the Crown; at that time, so much more than sufficient; insomuch as Q. Elizabeth did not receive in grants from her people above four millions in more than 40 Years.

The last grievance he mentions, is the doctrines which establish'd the bounded prerogative of the King, which subjected the privileges of Parliament to the permission and toleration of the Crown; to be retrench'd at the Will of the English Constitution from a free to an arbitrary Government.

Compares the usurpation of King James to those of the Popes, who, 260 years after they had been made Princes by Charlemagne, submitted to the Imperial Constitutions and Ecclesiatical Customs establish'd; after which they carry'd their tyrannies to the utmost pitch of extravagance; asserting that Rome was the capitol of the world, the Pope independent of all the powers on earth, and the Kings and Emperors liable to be deposed by this authority.

From whence, he concludes, may be justify'd the Conduct of the Parliament, and the Alarm of the Nation in 1614; that these were the Crimes for which K. James dissolved this Parliament with so much Indignation, after it had sate but a few Weeks, and pass'd not one Law, and confin'd some of their most active Members in the Tower, and other Prisons.

Reads Journal, Apr. 17. No. 317.

Of Self-knowledge.

His correspondent Crato takes for the subject of his letter that old Adage, Know thy self, a maxim, he says, so little regarded now-a-days as if the nature of the human being was a point that deserves no reflection.

Illustrates his arguments with several instances. Caninius is a gentlemen of a large estate, and so addicted to hunting, that it is more his business than his diversion; imitates the language of his hounds so exactly, that his huntsman hardly distinguishes his from theirs; makes it the only standing rule of his life, as soon as he perceives by the morning 'tis likely to be fine weather, calls John to bring out the horses, or if cloudy, to fetch the brandy bottle.

This conduct of Caninius is severely censur'd by Orcus, who has 2000 l. per ann. and neither wife nor child, and values himself on his consideration and forecast; has mortgaged his estate for 30,000 l. to make a river navigable, and by his success may be a prodigious gainer: But by his strict application to such-like schemes, has broke his constitution.

Urbanus, a modern fine gentleman of the town, is too well-bred ever to commit a solecism in good manners, yet breaks every article in the Decalogue daily without reluctance; pays his debts of honour on demand, his creditors, only when taken in execution at their suit; would cut the throat of any man that should cheat him at play, yet wants courage to call his steward to an account.

Canidia is his counter-part, who, tho' turn'd of fifty, is as gay and sprightly as if but fifteen. and continually entertains her company with the history of her love affairs; what deaths and mischiefs she has occasion'd in her time, till no-body but poor Martha is left to hear the sequel of her amours.

Maurus, the husband, is tender-natur'd, but passionate; His wife of a gloomy, wayward, and unforgiving disposition. Maurus's starts of passion throws Madam into the dumps and there is at least two days fondling and submission necessary to bring her into temper.

From this discourfe he infers, that few are conscious they are but men; if they did, it would be impossible for them to sink so very far below the dignity of their nature, or carry their views so unreasonably beyond it.

The Universal Spectator, Sat. April 17, No. 132.

Of the BIBLE.

MR. Stonecastle introduces a letter from his correspondent Civicus concerning the Bible, by observing, that, whatever a man's own belief may be, a decent respect is owing to the professed religious Faith and Worship.

The Bible, Civicus says, contains a great deal of morality and good senfe; and asserts, that for simplicity and purity of language, perspicuity and magnificence of thought, and for the importance and dignity of its contents, is scarce to be equall'd by any other writings in the world.

Does not enter into the dispute whether this Book, or any part of it, was penn'd by inspiration; but believes it will be granted by all people of judgment, that its composition and stile is wonderful; and that the Authors, if not inspir'd, were men of a most sublime, noble, and extensive Genius and Capacity, and therefore should be respectfully treated by Gentlemen and Scholars: since to have no sense of its excellencies, discovers as bad a taste, and as much ignorance, as it wou'd to make a jest of Homer, Plato, Xenophon, Virgil, Cicero. It has, as Longinus affirms, the true sublime, and as it is the most ancient book in the world, affords the most rational account of the beginning of things, and from whence Plato, Ovid, and others who have wrote of the world's creation, the original of its inhabitants, the deluge and peopling of the earth, borrow'd their materials: It likewise contains an exact account of the Jews, for upwards of a thousand years, upon which Christanity is built and from whence Mahometanism takes many of its Rites and Ceremonies. It is likewise interspers'd with much useful history of neighbouring nations, the lives of great men, and many remarkable events.

In the New Testament we find the most sublime and perfect scheme both of Morality and Religion that was ever promulgated; teaching the most exalted and just notions; the purest and most spiritual worship and adoration of the Deity, and inculcating peace, affection, beneficence and universal charity; the life, behaviour, and sufferings of JESUS, and many extraordinary incidents that befel him and his followers; the truth of which we have as good reason to believe, as of any other facts we find in history; the writers being eye-witnesses, and publish'd their accounts at a time when any imposition must immediately have been detected.

Critical Behaviour of the Disaffected.

Fog's Journal, Apr. 17, No. 129.

RUns a ludicrous comparison betwixt persons disaffected to our present wise and able Ministers, and those animals called Criticks; says, the passions of both are actuated by the same kind of malignity, for the Critick is never so well pleas'd as when he discovers a blunder in language or sense, nor the Disaffected so overjoy'd as when he sees a blunder in government.

In pursuance of this comparison, describes the Disaffected as under the greatest anxiety for the many glorious expeditions and annual treaties during the course of a wise and steady administration.

Mentions another resemblance betwixt the Critick and Disaffected, that is, to make faults where he can find none; that agreeable thereto the Disaffected apprehending that the treaty lately concluded will be advantageous, would persuade people that the foreign trade of this nation has been and still is declining; whereas, on the contrary, he himself has heard two or three gentlemen of good employments affirm, that we never enjoy'd a more flourishing trade than now. To this he foresees the Disaffected will object the petitions of the several Cities, Towns and Corporations, to Parliament, complaining of the extreme decay of the Woollen Manufacture, and increase of the Poor. But, says he, supposing this true, does it follow, that because these people know how make Cloth, that they must be judges of the rise and fall of Trade? No, we ought rather to appeal to gentle men who enjoy places and pensions and to those who write in defence of great men, to set us right in our opinion.

Another trifling proof brought by the Disaffected to support their charge of the decay of Trade, is the many Houses and Shops in this City, which formerly paid great fines to the landlords, now standing empty. But this, he says, ought not to be attributed to a decay of trade, but to the overgrown wealth of the landlords, who will not trouble themselves to let their Houses till they want Money.

Recollects an observation of a certain author, That nothing is so likely to ruin a Nation, as too much Money, which was the fate of Spain, as observed by Don Diego Savereda, namely, that after they were possess'd of that ocean of treasure, which cost the lives of twenty millions of Indians, they lost their senfes and industry together.

From the premises he concludes, that if we have any grievances to complain of, they are only such as proceed from having too much Money, and therefore that it is the part of a wise Administration that some drains he made to carry off this superfluous treasure; to which purpose, he says, nothing would be more expedient than frequent Treaties and Alliances with foreign Princes.

Of the British Sugar Colonies in America.

Free Briton, April 15. No. 72.

THE dispute between our northern and southern colonies in America, the author affirms, is a matter of great importance to this Kingdom.

Asserts, that while the produce of our sugar colonies is greater than we consume, the price of it will be influenced by French sugar, as it now is.

That our sugar colonies are supplied with slaves at least 40 per Cent. cheaper than the French, and have all manner of provisions, utensils, cattle and lumber, cheaper than the French have.

That, nothwithstanding this, our colonies sell their sugars from 40 to 60 per Cent. dearer than the French can sell theirs in the West Indies.

Yet, that the gentlemen of Barbadoes strongly insinuate that the French have advantages above them; and if the Bill now depending should pass into an Act, would make them Monopolists of all the sugars used throughout his Majesty's Dominions.

Next he produces several reasons offer'd by the gentlemen who contend for the Bill, which he refutes, and proceeds to shew what they have in view, namely, that if the Barbadians can obtain a Law to prohibit the importation of Sugar, Rum, or Molasses, the growth of any foreign colony, into any of his Majesty's Dominions, their whole produce of sugars would barely be sufficient for our own consumption, and would therefore make their own price, and our northern colonies be oblig'd to pay what they pleas'd for the Rum and Molasses, which they must have from these southern colonies.

Supposes that Barbadoes may produce one third in sugars more than our present consumption; even then, if the rest of our Islands should take their example, and clay and refine their sugars, there would not come to Britain two thirds of the quantity that now doth, therefore not enough. and they might play with us as they please, to the destruction of half the shipping in that trade.

Concludes with observing, that if we comply with these people, the French will increase in shipping as we decrease, and have ten ships to one of ours; that at present we have in those parts three to one of any other nation; and to destroy the employment of 300 sail of English shipping, is to destroy 3000 benefactors to our country, 3000 men who venture their lives to make us a wealthy and powerful people, a great and flourishing nation.

This thought strikes him with horror; and looking towards America, imagines he sees the French improving their northern colonies, where they have all sorts of materials for building of ships; thinks he sees 300 sail of vessels, either left to rot, or sold to our rivals; and at least ten times that number of men left to starve, or serve the French, or turn pirates; many thousand fishermen oblig'd to buy French Rum Brandy, and other necessaries, because they can have 'em cheapest from Cape Breton; the French encouraging our sailors to live among them; and our most profitable northern colonies ruin'd by the French.

* * *

On Sir Isaac Newton.

Newton's no more—By Silence Grief's exprest:

Lo here he lieth—His Works proclaim the rest.

Observations occasioned by the Remarks on the Reign of K. James I.

The London Journal, Sat. April, 17. No. 612.

MR. Osborne here allows the justness of Mr. Oldcastle's Remarks had they not been calculated to serve an invidious purpose.

Owns, that the reigns of the Stuarts can't be too often laid before the publick, as cautions against the growth of arbitrary power; in as much as the reign of K. James I. and his son K. Charles; were almost one constant violation of the laws of the land, and a continu'd conspiracy against the English constitution.

Finds fault with the Craftsman for saying that K. Charles was a religious and a just Prince, and for attributing his attacks upon liberty to prejudice, flattery and opposition: Osborne cannot allow him to be a just prince, unless being unjust to the publick, while he was just to a few private persons, will entitle a Prince to the character of just. And to say, that he only imagin'd himself defending his own rights, while he was notoriously invading those of his people, is making this Saint, and martyr King, a much weaker man than his predecessor. Says, they were both bad enough; but arbritrary principles seem rooted in the heart of the son, while they only play'd in the head of the father.

Observes, that the design of Mr. Oldcastle's remarks on the reigns of the Stuarts, is to show, That the court was a faction against the liberties and rights of the people, which Osborne readily allows; but that they are exhibited in the Craftsman with a bad intent; to prevent the ill effects of which, sets forth the principles and practices which constituted the court a faction against the people, viz.

That the parliaments and people's privileges were so many usurpations; or, at best, but concessions of the Kings their predecessors which might, at any time, be revoked.

Two books were licens'd by K James; one wrote by Dr. Cowel, a Civilian; the other by Dr. Blackwood a Clergyman, containing principles of the same purport.

In the beginning of K. Charles I. reign the same doctrines were inculcated by Dr. Manwaring, for which he was censur'd by parliament, but was afterwards made a Dean and then a Bishop; and the Arch-Bishop of Canterbury was suspended for not licensing his sermons.

Mentions several instances wherein these two Kings discover'd their inclinations to independency and arbitrary power; and concludes that thus the constitution was absolutely destroy'd.

* * *

The Grubstreet-Journal, Thursday, April 22. No. 68.

REfers to their Journal, No. 58, Feb. 11. (for which see p. 16.) which was an abridgment of a pamphlet, intitled, A treatise upon the Modes, or a farewel to French Kicks, printed 1715, thought to be written by a Divine, and was then judg'd very seasonable, and had a good influence in securing us from Popery and the Pretender; so the republication of it in their Journal has been reckon'd to have influenc'd the conclusion of the late treaty without the participation of the French, and so partly occafion'd A second farewel to French Kicks.

Takes occasion from hence to mention a preface to A Treatise upon modern Fashions, written by a revd. Divine, wherein is drawn up the Case of Anthony Collins, and Richard Tindal, lawyers.

After several satyrical reflections on the different abilities, principles and professions of these two gentlemen, the author says that Dr. Tindal, is the reputed author of a book intituled, Christianity as old as the Creation, which favoursDeism.

To this book he mentions several answers, particularly one written by Mr. Wm Law, called, The case of Reason or natural Religion fairly and fully stated. Gives a specimen of argument on both sides the question, viz.

The Doctor asserts, That the relations between things, and the fitness resulting from thence, is the sole Rule of God's Actions.

Mr. Law replies, That if God is thus to act, and if nothing can be fit for him to do, but has its fitness founded in his own divinely perfect and incomprehensible Nature, he must act by a Rule that is just as incomprehensible to us as is his own Nature. So that we can't judge of the fitness thereof.

¶ Having finish'd this discourse, Mr. Bavius gives a letter from Obadiah Anthem, a parish-clerk within the liberties of Westminster, in which is the ensuing Paragraph, viz.

In the Parish where I serve, the Vestry is compos'd of thirty select members, besides the Rector, and two vestry Justices of the Peace: By this Quorum (as we call them) the Parish Rates are assess'd; and the accounts adjusted by the two Justices. I must likewise tell you, these Gentlemen have the steadiness not to desert their calling, but keep as constantly their place for life, as the Rev. Rector; when a member dies, the vacancy is fill'd up by the surviving fraternity. Their proceedings are generally in secret, but I happen'd not long ago to get a view of the Overseers annual collection, and a sketch of an account stated thus by the Vestry.

l. s. d.

Recd. by 5 collecting books, 5554 3 3 6112 5 0

Dit. otherwise 558 1 9

Dishd. to Orphans 562 1 0 5736 8 5

dit. to Pensioners 2222 4 0

dit. extraordinary 2945 3 5

Balance 374 16 7

I am not much skill'd in Arithmetick, tho' pretty well acquainted with parish expences, and the usual annual disbursements; the ditto extraordinary, which is near one half of the whole collection, is (I doubt) not the lot of the Poor, but rather of the Rich.

¶ Next, is a description of the Monument erected to the memory of Sir Isaac Newton, in these words, viz.

On a pedestal is placed a Sarcophagus (or stone coffin) upon the front of which are boys in Basso-relieve, with instruments in their hands, denoting his several discoveries, viz. one with a Prism, on which principally his admirable book of light and colours is founded: another with a reflecting Telescope, whose great advantages are now so well known; another boy is weighing the Sun and Planets with a Stilliard, the Sun being near the center on one side, and the Planets on the other, alluding to a celebrated proposition in his Principia; another is busy about a furnace, and two others (near him) are loaded with money as newly coined, intimating his office in the Mint.―On the Sarcophagus his own figure is placed, in a cumbent posture, his elbow resting on the several incomparable books written by him; two boys stand before him with a scroll, on which is drawn a remarkable Diagram relating to the solar System; and over that a converging Series, an invention which shews the utmost of human understanding.―Behind the Sarcophagus is a Pyramid; from the middle of it a Globe arises in Mezzo Relievo, on which several of the Constellations are drawn, in order to shew the path of the Comet in 1681, whose period he has with the greatest sagacity determin'd: And also the Position of the solstitial Colure mention'd by Hipparchus by which (in his Chronology) he has fixed the time of the Argonautic expedition.―On the Globe sits the figure of Astronomy weeping, with a sceptre in her hand (as Queen of the Sciences) and a Star over her head on the Pyramid.―On this Monument is inscrib'd the following Epitaph, viz.

Hic situs est

ISAACUS NEWTON Eques auratas,

Qui animi vi prope divina

Planetarum motus figuras.

Cometarum semitas, Oseanique astus,

Sua mathesifacem præserente,

Primus demonstravit:

Radioram lucis dissimilitudines,

Colorumque inde nascentium proprietates,

Quas nemo antes vel suspicatus erat, pervestigavit.

Naturæ antiquitatis, S. Scripturæ,

Sedulus sagax, fidus interpres.

Dei O. M. majestatem philosophia asseruit,

Evangelii simplicitatem moribus expressit.

Sibi gratulentur mortales,

Tale tantumque extitisse

Humani generis decus.

Natus 25 Dec. A. D. 1642.

Obiit 20. Mar. 1726.

Next is inserted an extract of a letter to the Author of the Daily Courant, relating to the intended Pension Bill, which was thrown out by the House of Lords, when, the writer says, he heard a Bishop (Sh―lck) speak the following words, viz.

——— For tho' this Bill at first sight seems to be a self denying Bill; and to some particular Members may perhaps prove so; yet the Commons, consider'd as an House of Parliament, will find in it, I suspect a very great enlargement of Power, And whatever tends to break the balance between the Powers essential to this Constitution, must sooner or later prove the ruin of the whole. An independent House of Commons, or an indulgent House of Lords, is as inconsistent with our Constitution, as an independent, that is, absolute, King. And whoever loves the Liberties and Laws of his Country, will no more desire to see one than the other. Let Bribery be punished, let Corruption be punished but not by giving so much Strength to one Power of this Constitution, as shall make it able to overbear the rest.

The Free Briton, Thursday, April 12. No 73.

The History of Patriotism.

THE D. of Marlborough, and the Ld. Treasurer Godolphin, had directed the armies and the revenues of this Kingdom for the first nine years of the late Queen's reign; the former without repulse or controul, the latter without Corruption or reproach. The British administration, principally vested in those noble Lords, in conjunction with the Grand Alliance, made that virtuous and immortal Stand which check'd the Progress of the aspiring French, recover'd the Liberty of Germany, the Barrier of Holland, the Neutrality of Italy, twice seiz'd on the Capital of Spain, and bid fair for the reduction of the whole Spanish Monarchy, while France, no longer able to annoy, was scarce suffient for her own support.

Such, our author says, was the Glory of the British Name, such the Prospect of Happiness to the Nation in 1709, when Faction arose, and wrested the sword of Victory from the Hands of the greatest General, and the Treasurer's Staff from the greatest Statesman, our Country ever knew. Observes, that one of the Chiefs, who conducted that Faction, hath opposed himself to the Ministry now in being.

Remarks, that words without meaning, pronounced with a terrible outcry, have a strange effect on unexamining men.

Gives several instances, viz. of Corruption, a topick of declamation sure to obtain attention; the Church, idolatrously worshipp'd by the multitude; that the growth of Corruption and the danger of the Church, have been equally alarming: Hence Male contents fomented Divisions and form'd Parties; and from hence the enemies of the D. of Marlborough, and the E. Godolphin, took occasion to work up the passion of the people against them.

At the same time Defamation sounded her trumpet as loud as Sedition itself. The Duke's Victories were Topicks of Invective against him; the Ministry accus'd of engrossing the Queen to themselves, and as designing to establish a General and a Treasurer for life, and to protract the War as long as they should live.

Nothing, says he, was now wantnig to finish the Scheme, but to bring the Sovereign into the Party, whose easy and too unguarded Nature and Indulgency to the Clergy, made her susceptive of Insinuations to her Prejudice; which was the Rock on which the Nation split.

To poyson the People more effectually, says, the Examiner was then publish'd, which, as Mr. Addison observes, was levell'd against the greatest and most shining Characters in the Kingdom.

Universal Spectator, Sat. April 24. No. 133.

Of Court Mournings.

Inserts a letter from Richard Shuttle, a Weaver, who complains of the Inconveniencies which distress the workmen of that Trade, from the deaths of some foreign Princes, which having obliged the Court to continued and successive Mournings, that kind of dress has universally prevailed to the great Damage of the Weavers.

Acknowledges, that her Majesty's goodness is such, that she is far from desiring that this regard should be more burthensome than is necessary to her subjects; and humbly conceives, that if the Mourning went no farther than the Court and Drawing room, and if women of Inferiour rank should make no alteration in their Dress, it would be full as well.

Is led into this train of thinking by the care already taken of reducing the time of State-mournings; and wishes it might serve for an example to persons of all ranks, to induce them to confider that their Dress, as manag'd, may turn to the advantage or prejudice of their Country.

To an objection, that these sudden Mournings advance Trade, by occasioning a demand for black Silks, &c. answers, by observing that most people have Suits by them always ready for such occasions; and that what new Blacks are bought are generally Italian and Dutch Manufactures, to the discouragement of our own.

These considerations, he says, in a a former Reign, induced the Court to make all imaginable changes in the sorts, stuffs, and appendages of Mourning every fortnight or three weeks. The Mourning for Pr. George of Denmark was white Anterine, with black Lace, that the Lace men might have some amends for their loss in not wearing Gold and Silver.

Proposes, that the same Order of Court that appoints Mourning, may appoint the different Colours, adorn'd after this or that manner, to be Mourning, as used in former times. Yellow Sattin was the Mourning in the days of Harry the 8th. Scarlet continued to be so till within our remembrance; and consequently any alteration may be justified by ancient Custom.

And lastly, recommends it to the consideration of the Fair Sex, that as they are inquisitive after new Fashions, it is hardly honest to leave them upon the makers hands when they have studied to please them.

The Craftsman, Saturday April 24. No. 251.

Thoughts on the Treaty of Vienna.

ACknowledges the unexpected honour him by the publick declaration which a certain great man had on several occasions made in favour of his Writings, and doubted not of seeing a cordial union and friendship between them, had it not been for publishing that wicked Hague Letter about three Months since, concerning a Negotiation at Vienna, which he owns was improperly publish'd at that time; however justifies himself in that matter.

The The Difference between him and his Antagonist, he says, was, that He (the Craftsman) constantly pleaded for an Alliance with the Emperor in preference to France, but this Gentleman for an Alliance with France in preference to the Emperor; but as it was impracticable to make them both our sincere Allies, his Friend thought proper to come over to him.

Desires that it may be remembred, that he never contended for any Alliance with the Emperor but what should be equal, safe, and honourable; that he never pleaded for guarantying the Emperor's Disposition of the Austrian Dominions, but on the contrary, endeavoured to shew the inconveniencies of Guaranties in general.

Gives his Sentiments upon this Subject in the words of a Pamphlet published about two Years ago, entitled, Observations on the Treaty of Seville examined wherein 'tis remarked, that our Ministers could make a Peace with the Emperor whenever they pleas'd, by giving a Guaranty to his Disposition of the Austrian Dominions; but that such a method of Cure would be but little preferable to the Disease itself.

Supposing that it was necessary to reconcile our selves to the Emperor, and not to be done without consenting to this guaranty, asks, why this was not done long ago, which would have prevented the Mischiefs and Expences which have since happened? and whether we might not have avoided the necessity of purchasing a Reconcilation, by avoiding an unnecessary Quarrel?

Having asked these, and several other Questions, to the same purpose, readily allows, it is never too late, in one sense, to correct our Errors. A Publick Min——r indeed may correct them too late, when by his Blunders national Advantages are lost. Approves the Measures taken at concluding this Peace, and hopes there may be no farther Articles (besides that of the Guaranty) which will justly give occasion to dislike in the Particulars, what is so justy approved of in general.

The London Journal, Sat. April 24. No. 613.

On Opposition to Courts, and Independency of Parliaments.

I

n this Discourse Osborne allows and Oldcastle all that he contended for about K. James, with respect to his Prerogative, his Profuseness, and his ill Usage of Parliaments: But demands why all this is retail'd to us. To us, who know no Evils, nor apprehend any Dangers? 'Tis not for the sake of Liberty, but downright Faction.

Says Mr. Oldcastle insinuates, that because the King and Parliament agree, we are in a worse Condition than if the King govern'd without a Parliament; an Assertion not true, because Parliaments are not perpetual, and there is no remedy against a single arbitrary Power, and the present administration never attempted one thing against our liberties, nor asked any thing but what the People (if not prejudiced) would give for their own sakes.

Asks what reason the Parliament has to differ with the Court? Because there is no reason for Opposition, is it a Consequence that they are slavish Dependants? K. James's Parliament, he says, did well, and every other Parliament is oblig'd, for the good of the Publick, to oppose in like Circumstances.

Mr. Oldcastle having often talk'd of the independency of Parliament, Osborne puts him upon explaining his Notion, which he had express'd in these words, There is a Dependance of the several parts of Government on one another, on the Preservation of which the freedom of our Government entirely rests. This Mr. Osborne grants, and refers to a London Journal, publish'd Sept. 19. for an explanation of his own Notion of the English Constitution and of balance of power; the substance of which he here repeats. The proposition he laid down was, That the Business of Government cannot be carried on by powers absolutely distinct, and absolutely independant; because where the supreme power is single, it will sink into tyranny, because without check; and the several powers which constitute a Government, can act only by mutual Dependency, and the necessity they stand in of each other.

Applies this Discourse to the English Government, and shews, That the excellency of the English Constitution consists in this, that Kings, Lords and Commons, are three really distinct powers, and have each a negative upon one another, and no legal Act can pass without the concurrence of all.

Again, the Legislature is the supreme power of the Nation, of which the King is one essential part, and his power equal to the other two. Instances in King William, who by refusing Bills which pass'd both Houses on purpose to distress publick Affairs, sav'd the Nation.

Concludes with saying, This is that Dependence of the several parts of the Government on one another, which our Constitution hath form'd to preserve our Liberties.

The Grub-street-Journal, Thursday April 29. No. 69.

T

he first part of this Journal is an Abstract of the Case of that illustrious Member of their Society, the Reverend Mr. John Henley, intitled, a Narrative, written by Mr. Welstede.

Mr. Henley (it says) was born at Melton Mowbray, in the County of Leicester, Aug. 3. 1692. His Father, and his two Grandfathers Clergymen.

It sets forth his vast improvements in all School Learning.

At the Age of 17 he was translated to St. John's College Oxford, where, on examination, he was approved. Here he found a great Defect, that though he was brought up for a Clergyman, he was not instructed to Preach, or Pray, or read Prayers, or Speak, or Catechise, or Confer, or Resolve a Case of Conscience, or understand the Scriptures, or form any natural or clear Ideas of the Christian Religion.

Having commenced Batchelor of Arts he took upon him the Direction of Melton School, where he improv'd Elocution, by the publick speaking of Passages in the Classicks.

After this he was ordained a Deacon by Dr. Wake; and his examination for Orders was so short and superficial, that by his account it is not necessary to conform to the Christian Religion in order to be a Deacon or Priest, but to subscribe to the System of the Church.

Having resolved to improve himself in Books and Conversation, gave his Parishioners warning and came to Town, where he publish'd several Pieces, and preach'd more Charity Sermons than any other preacher. But meeting with some Obstructions from his Patron, who, it seems, did not fulfill his Promise of fixing him in Town, he struck up a plan to instruct Mankind in a Method entirely new.

The Narrative concludes with an Eulogium on his great Abilities for the various parts of learning he professes to teach.

§ 2. Next is introduced a Character of the same Gentleman, as given by the Author of the Dunciad, viz.

Imbrown'd with native bronze, lo Henley stands,

Tuning his voice, and balancing his hands.

How fluent nonsense trickles from his tongue!

How sweet the periods, neither said nor sung!

Still break the benches Henley! with thy strain,

while K**, B**r, W**, preach in vain,

O great restorer of the good old stage,

Preacher at once, and zany of thy age!

O worthy thou of Ægypt's wise abodes,

A decent priest, where monkeys were the gods!

But Fate with butchers plac'd thy priestly stall,

Meek modern faith to murder, hack, and mawl;

And bade thee live to crown Britannia's praise,

In Tolund's, Tindal's, and in Woolston's days.

The Annotator adds a virulent note, in which, among other Things, he says, That 'having for some Years been a Writer for Booksellers, he had an ambition to be so for Ministers of State; and offer'd the service of his Pen, in one Morning, to two great Men of Opinions and Interests directly opposite; by both of whom being rejected, he set up a new Project, and styled himself the Restorer of antient Eloquence.———After having stood some Prosecutions, he turn'd his Rhetorick to Buffoonery upon all publick and private Occurences. All this pass'd in the same room where sometimes he broke Jests, and sometimes that Bread, which he cal'd the Primitive Eucharist.———This wonderful Person struck Medals. which be dispers'd as Tickets to his Subscriber: The Device, a Star rising to the Meridian, with this Morro, Ad summæ; and below, Inveniam viam aut faciam.' Dunciad, B III.

§ 3. A Letter sign'd Bankrupt, is inserted, the Writer of which says, that after 18 Months of the greatest Perplexity, he is now a Bankrupt, and finds there is more ease in being one, than in that mistaken notion of living as long as one can, and catching hold of any Twig rather than sink, and gives a detail of Extortions, and other Methods of Oppression used by the Sheriffs Officers.

The Dayly Courant, April 17.

Of TYTHES.

AN anonymous Letter is inserted, Which takes Notice of a Pamphlet just publish'd, intitled Animadversions on a Rev. Prelate's Remarks upon the Bill to prevent Tythes. The Letter writer has summ'd up in the Animadverter's own Words, under the following Heads, the views and designs on which the Bill is founded.

1. "That the Clergy have the Law on their side.

2. "That the Clergy have no right to Maintenance from the Laity, much less to any Tythe at all.

3. "That no Man, by Conscience or for his own Happiness, or for the publick Good, is oblig'd to conform to any Church, or advise with any Priest, or profess any Religion at all.

4. "That if he does conform to any Church, of his own Choice, it is for some temporal Advantage, so far as he is under an obligation and owes a Maintenance to the Clergy, from whom he receives an Equivalent.

5. "That it may be necessary that Priests, as well as Physicians, should be provided for the cure of Souls, as well as of Bodies; but there is no difference between Physicians and Priests which can create a greater Obligation to the latter than to the former; because there is no difference between the Soul and the Body, which can create a greater regard for the one than for the other: it being certain that they both die and perish alike together."

Upon which the Letter-writer having made several Reflections, concludes with this, viz That this Bill will be ever look'd upon as the illustrious Legacy of those Gentlemen who form'd it, not only to the Clergy, but to our most holy Religion; so Posterity shall say of them, That they were brave wicked Men, who durst attempt to overturns, not only the Constitution both in Church and State, but even Christianity itself.

The Daily Courant, April 24.

AN Advertisement having been publish'd in the Post Boy, April 17, intimating, that a Letter had been printed in the Daily Courant, a little before, which had undertaken to confute the Animadversions lately publish'd by a Rev. Prelate's Remarks upon the Bill to prevent Tythes, to which purpose he had pretended to cite the Author's own words, making him to say, That no Man is oblig'd to profess any Religion at all, and that it is certain the Soul and Body both perish and die alike together: He thereby assured the publick, that no such passages were in the said Pamphlet, either in words or meaning.

The Letter-writer here justifies his Assertions, by quoting the Animadverter's Principles, viz. That no Man by Conscience, nor for his own Happiness, or for the publick Good, is obliged to conform to any Church; and that if he does conform, of his own Choice, it is for some temporal Advantage; and that it may be necessary that priests, as well as physicians, should be provided for the care of Souls well as of Bodies; but there is no difference between Physicians and Priests, which can create a greater Obligation to the latter than the former.

Concludes, That the natural Construction and wicked signification of these words must be, That no Man is oblig'd to profess any Religion at all, and that it is certain the Soul and Body both perish and die alike together.

Apology for Pawn-brokers.

Daily Post-Boy, Monday Apr. 26.

INserts a Letter wherein the writer vindicates the Pawnbrokers from the hard imputations they are generally charged with. To this purpofe he comprises what is alledg'd against them under the following Heads.

(1) That they lend so little on Goods, that they gain immensly by the sale of them. (2) That they encourage Thieves. (3) That they make exorbitant Advantages by the Interest they take for Goods that are redeemed. As to the first, says, There are two Causes of the out-cry against them: First, The considerable Disparity between the Price of Goods at the first Hand, and when they come to be sold to the immediate Wearer; commonly two or three Profits are got out of them before that comes to be the Case.

Secondly, The great and almost incredible Difference between buying a Thing new, and selling that Thing at second Hand; and the Damages all sorts of Goods are liable to by lying so long a time.

As to their encouraging Thieves, and as a Proof, that there is not a Sessions but some of them are there on Account of stolen Goods; to this he answers, he rather wonders, that all of the Business are not there every Sessions, when it is considered, that perhaps a Pawnbroker shall lend Money on fifty separate Parcels of Goods in a Day: Does not know of one Pawnbroker's being convicted of such Practices; but believes more Goldsmiths have been convicted of encouraging Thieves, than Pawnbrokers.

Proceeds to consider the last Charge against them, viz. of taking exorbitant Interest; in answer to which proposes two Questions.

1. Whether Pawnbroker's Time and Labour does not entitle him to as good a Reward, as other Men receive?

2. Whether his having been subjected to the Will and Profits of another for the term of seven Years, may not deserve some Consideration, as well as the servitude of other Men?

To these Questions he gives a prolix Answer, which, we conceive may be summ'd up in his own Words in the following Paragraph, viz,

Suppose I lend a person 5 s. on a Pledge this Day, he redeems his Goods to Morrow, I expect 6 d. Profit for my Time, Trouble, and laying out my Money; for this I am charged with 100 per Cent. Profit per Ann. Now a fair Trader lays out 20 s. sells his Goods again for ready Money (it may be the same Day) gets 1 s. and he gets but 5 per Cent. whereas, reckon his Profits per Ann. and they will amount to 1600 per Cent. My Judgment is requir'd as much to examine, what I lend my Money upon, as his is to enquire the worth of the Commodity he buys; my money is as truly disbursed as his; and it takes me up as much thought and time to lend 20 s. as it does him to lay out 20 s.

Remarks on a pamphlet, entitled, Some Observations on the present State of Ireland, and Woolen Manufacture

The Free Briton, April, 29. No. 74.

THis pamphlet, our author says, is design'd for the information of that noble person who is appointed Lieutenant of Ireland. How he has executed his design is the business of this discourse.

In the said pamphlet 'tis asserted that most of the Irish estates were set soon after the revolution, infinitely below their real value; at 31 years; so that tenants got all the profit, and liv'd almost as well as their landlords. That the case is now alter'd, and tenants pay the full value of their lands; rents have been rais'd one third within these seven years, which the tenants find it hard to pay, having used themselves many years to all kinds of extravagance; which has very much contributed to the driving so many out of the kingdom. That the grand evil attending this rise of the lands, is the drain of their species. That the lands of the Absenters being risen a third part, there is just a third part more drawn from them than there was seven years ago. From whence he wou'd prove that nothing can serve the people of Ireland but laying their commerce entirely open, and allowing them free trade with all the world. And lastly tells his Grace, that a terrible spirit boils in the heart of every Irishman at this juncture.

To this our author replies, that all the grievances here complain'd of, are the extravagance of their people at home, and the remittance of money to absenters abroad, and asks, whether the people of Britain are obliged to sacrifice their trade, wealth and happiness, their staple manufactures, and the daily bread of multitudes, to relieve the people of Ireland against their own extravagance and indiscretion, their bad Oeconomy at home, and draught of money from abroad.

Expresses his indignation, to see the people of Ireland thus misrepresented, at a time when the British Parliament are daily deliberating on the methods, and are glad of any expedients to make them easy.

The point of a free trade, which the writer drives at, our author says, deserves the utmost consideration, and may be attended with many difficulties; it will take them into partnership with us in our most valuable trade, with this circumstance, that they will certainly under-sell us, and remove the poverty they complain of into the heart of our own country.

To this it being reply'd, that altho' they may under-sell us for a time, yet by working their own wool, they shall have none to spare for the use of foreign manufacturers, and consequently our neighbours must have a greater demand for ours; our author answers, that granting this true, it shou'd be consider'd, how long it would be before the English and Irish together could beat our common rivals in the foreign market; how long it would be before we should find employment for the poor of our cloathing countries; how many must be reduced to want; and how long they must be in a starving condition before the overthrow of those foreign manufactures should add to our own expectation.

Account of Mr. Fallowfield's Proposal for making Iron.

THis he introduces with some Reflections on the miscarriages of Mr. Wood's Project of making Iron with Pulveris'd Ore, and then says he obtain'd his late Majesty's Patent for making Iron with Peat, but delay'd some time his putting it in Practice, because of the mighty bustle made by Mr. Wood and his Party.

This Fuel, he says, is produced in great plenty, in almost all the Countries where Iron Stone is found, as if Nature had purposely prepared it for this Use. The heat is evidently more intense, since it will make a Bloom half an hour sooner than Charcoal will, and makes Iron and Steel from the Ore, through all the Gradations, not only in as great, but greater perfection, and in less Time than Wood Charcoal.

Appeals to all Persons in the Neighbourhood of his Furnace near Leek in Staffordshire, who have seen his Method, whether the Iron is not as good as any made with Charcoal. Is desirous likewise, that all Persons who are willing to engage, or be satisfied of the Usefulness and Certainty of his Invention, should have the fullest Demonstration possible, by seeing the Furnace at work, and computing every part of the Expence, till there is no room left for doubt.

Lastly, proposes, that if any Person so satisfied of his Ability to make Iron in this Method, for 10 l. per Ton, is disposed to give his Assistance towards rendring this Invention more extensive and beneficial to the Nation, by promoting Works in several parts of the Kingdom, he may either contract with him for Quantities of Iron to be deliver'd at the end of six months, paying one half of the Money at signing the Contract, and the other half on Delivery of the Iron, which he shall have 20 per Cent. under Market Price; or, if he chuse rather to have the whole Security in his own Hands, and has quantities of Ore and Peat, or will take Leases of the same, and advance Money for building Works, and carrying on the Undertaking in a manner to be agreed on between them, shall have such Proportion of the Profits of all the Iron that shall be made and sold, as shall be a handsome Encouragement to him to advance money to carry on an Invention so very useful and beneficial to the Nation, as well as the Persons interested therein.

An Account of Mr. Wood's Project of making Iron from Pit Coal.

THE proprietors assert, that the Iron so proposed to be made, and which they actually did make at Chelsea on Monday 16th Instant, is not brittle but tough, and fit for all uses, and is to be manufactured with as little waste of Metal, Labour, and Expence, as any other Iron, and that it may and can be made for less than 10 l. a Ton, which they will make appear to any curious Enquirer.

Mr. Tomkyn's Remarks on Mr. Wood's Project, and his own Proposals.

MR. Wood's Proprietors having made tryal, Mr. Tomkyns made the following Remarks upon it, viz. That the Iron in drawing out, took up an unusual Time; that after its being shap'd into an Ankony, it requir'd 14 heats to draw it into a Bar, whereas it ought to have been done in three or four at least. That the Ore used was tough, yet the Bar, when broke, appear'd, in some places, to be a cold short Iron, and of a different Complexion to other parts of it.

Proposes with Pit Coal Fire to make Bar Iron from Pig Metal made with Pit Coal coak'd, better and cheaper than what is made by Mr. Wood's Method, as he is ready and willing to stand the rest.

Remarkable Advertisement.

APril 26 1731. Lost or mislaid, one Pair of large Brilliant Diamond Ear-Rings, with Drops of the first Water and one odd Night Ear-Ring, with three Brilliant Diamonds; three large Bars for the Breast, set with Rose Diamonds.

If offer'd to be sold, pawn'd or valued, pray stop them and the [2]PARTY, and give Notice to Mr. Drummond, Goldsmith, at Charing Cross, and you shall receive Two Hundred Guineas Reward for the same.

↑ A further answer to these verses the Courant has publish'd, by turning them in the following manner: change sides,

Each movement some blind Fidler guides.

So certain Patriots, just a Sett,

As well united, as well met,

Dance thro' the Maze of Politicks,

And show a thousand merry tricks;

A Wight behind the curtain stands,

Who tunes their voice & guides their hands

They catch the gaping vulgar's praise,

Tho' but the puppets which he plays;

Yet in each case the dance once done,

They find themselves where they begun.

↑ Especially if it be a young Lady

PROLOGUE to Eurydice, a Tragedy Written by Aaron Hill, Esq; Spoken by Mr. Wilks.

IN Youth, when modesty and merit meet,

How rare the union! and the force how sweet!

Tho' at small praise our humble author aims,

His friend may give him what his blush disclaims.

Ladies! to you he makes his chief address,

Form'd to be pray'd to, and even born to bless!

He feels your power himself, and makes it felt;

His scenes will teach each stubborn heart to melt:

And each fair eye, that now shines softly here,

Anon shall shine still softer thro' a tear.

 Let not constraint your gen'rous sighs repress,

Nor veil compassion, nor repel distress.

Your sex's strength is in such weakness found;

And sighs and tears but help your charms to wound.

Of all the wonders taught us by the fair,

'Tis strangest, Tragedy should lose their care!

Where love, soft tyrant, in full glory reigns,

And sovereign beauty holds the World in chains.

Less polisht, and more bold, the comic Muse

Unkings your Cupid, or obstructs his views,

Upholds presuming Wit's familiar claim,

And blots out Awe from Love's diminish'd flame,

Finds, or makes faults, and sets 'em strong in sight,

And dares draw Woman false, or vain, or light.

While Tragedy, your servant try'd and true,

Still to your fame devoted, and to You!

Enslav'd to Love, subdu'd ambition brings,

Firms Beauty's power, and crowns it king of kings.

Let wish'd attention grace our scene to night,

And mourn'd afflictions move refin'd delight.

Each tender light of life we recommend;

Wife, husband, subject, parent, son, and friend!

All your impassion'd interests shall engage,

And hopes and fears, and pity fire the stage.

 Then, when soft sorrow swells the fair one's breast,

And sad impressions mix with nightly rest,

Pleasing remembrance shall our scene supply

And the sweet saddening influence never die.

EPILOGUE to Eurydice. By Aaron Hill, Esq; Spoken by Miss Robinson, in Boys Cloths, tripping in hastily.

O Gentlemen! I'm come, but was not sent for

A voluntier. Pray does my fizz entice ye?

Man, I am yours--Sex! blest as heaven can make ye,

And from this time, weak Woman! I forsake ye.

Who'd be a wife when each new Play can teach us?

To what find ends these Lords of ours beseech us?

At first whate'r they do they do so charming

By mark what follows, frightful! and alarming!

They feed too fast on Love, then sick'ning tell us,

They can't, forsooth, be kind-because they're jealous,

Who would be woman then, to sigh & suffer,

And wish, and wait, for the slow-coming proffer!

Not I. Farewel to petticoats and stitching,

And welcome dear, dear breeches! most bewitching.

Henceforth, new moulded, I'll rove, love, and wander,

And fight, and storm, and charm, like Poriander.

Born for this dapper Age, pert, short, and clever;

If e'er I grow a Man,--'tis now or never.

 Well, but what conduct suits this transformation?

I'll copy some smart soul of conversation,

Should there be war; I'd talk of Fields and trenches,

Should there be peace, I'd toast ten fav'rite wenches!

Should I be lov'd, gad so! how then? no matter,

I'll bow as you do, and look foolish at her.

And so, who knows, that never means to prove ye

But I'm as good a Man as any of ye?

Well, 'tis a charming project, and I'll do't,

Sirs, have I your consent? what say ye to't?

Yet hold, perhaps they'll dread a rival Beau,

I may be what I seem, for aught they know.

Ladies farewel, I should be loth to leave ye,

Could an increase of pretty fellows grieve ye,

Each like myself, devoted ne'r to harm ye,

And full as fit, no doubt, to serve and charm ye.

EPIGRAMS on various Subjects.

AS Sh——— was pleading for Bribes and for Pensions;

Thus W———e explain'd the good Man's Intentions:

By the River whilst trembling stood each Eaton Dunce,

G———d d——— ye (cry'd Sh———) e'en plunge in at once,

At School and in S———te the same he appears.

The Man, like the Boy, souse o'er Head and Ears.

Another

As Sh———k at Temple was taking a Boat,

The Waterman ask'd him which way he would float;

Which way! (says the Dr.) why, Fool, with the Stream,

To Paul's, or to Lambeth,———'t was all one to him.

Dialogue between a Vestry Man and a Rev. Dr.

V. From our Vestry I come, Sir, a favour to crave,

D. O! the Sermon I promis'd;———yes, that you shall have.

V. No, Sir, with submission—you my Business mistake,

You're desir'd not to preach, e'en for Charity's sake.

Your Audience, like Members, without Pension or Pay,

Would remain Independent on all you can say.

To Caleb D'Anvers, Esq. on the Peace.

What this Treaty will prove thou can'st not divine;

His Peace Reben holds, pry'thee Caleb hold thine.

Design'd for the Monument of Sir Isaac Newton.

APproach ye wise'ot Soul! with Awe divine,

'Tis Newton's Name that consecrates this Shrine;

That Son of Knowledge, whose Meridian Ray,

Kindled the Gloom of Nature into Day!

That Soul of Science! that unbounded Mind!

That Genius which exalted Human Kind!

Confest Supreme of Men! his Country's Pride!

And half esteem'd an Angel———till he dy'd.

Who in the Eye of Heaven like Enoch stood,

And, thro' the Paths of Knowledge walk'd with God.

Who made his Fame a Sea without a Shore,

And but forsook one World to know the Laws of more.

Another.

Sir ISAAC NEWTON.

More than his NAME were less--'Twou'd seem to fear,

He, who increas'd HEAVEN's fame, cou'd want it here.

Yet———, when the SUNS, he lighted up, shall fade,

And all the WORLDS he found, are first decay'd;

Then void and waste, ETERNITE shall lie,

And TIME and NEWTON's Name together die!

The Amorous DUELISTS.

Writ on a Quarrel for Miss Steele.

TWO British heroes, proud of ancient blood,

For polish'd Beauty eager Rivals stood;

Both deeply pierc'd, their rankling wounds confest,

And painted Beauty cag'd in either breast.

What shou'd they do? no partnership's in Love;

No middle way contending Rivals prove,

'Tis radient Steele must end the fierce Dispute,

And falling Reason glitt'ring Arms confute.

Brave they engage, but yet with caution brave,

Each wou'd enjoy, yet each his Life wou'd save,

Inglorious Action! base, unworthy Deed!

Big in their Words, yet fear for Love to Bleed.

Such dullard Souls a Fate severe shou'd feel,

And die untimely by some rusty Steele.

The Inscription over Duke Scholberg's Vault in St Patrick's Church Dublin, written by Dean Swift.

Hic infra

Situm est Corpus

Frederici Ducis de Scholberg Ad

Bubindam Occisi

A.D. 1690.

Decanus & Capitulam maximopere etiam atque etiam petierunt, ut Hæredes Ducis in memoriam parentis Monumentum quantumvis exile, erigi curarent; sed postquam, per Epistolas, per Amicos, diu ac sæpe orando, nil profecere, hunc Lapidem, indignabundi, posuerunt; saltem ut scias, huspes, Quantilla in Cellulæ, tanti Ductoris Gineres, in Opprobrium Hæredum delitescunt. Plus valuit Virtutis samæ apud Alienos, quam Sanguinis proximitas apud suos. A.D. 1731.

Translated thus.

The Dean and Chapter of St. Patrick's did most earnestly over and over again request, that the Heirs of the Duke wou'd be pleas'd to erect a Monument, however plain and small, to his Memory; but when by long and frequent Solicitations, both by Letters and by Friends, they found nothing could be obtain'd, griev'd for the Indignity offer'd to the memory of so great a Man, they fixed up this Stone, that thou, O Stranger, mightest know in how poor a Cell the Ashes of so great a General lie neglected, to the Reproach of his Heirs. So much could the Admiration of his Virtues avail with Strangers, more than the nearest Ties of Blood could with his Relations.

BATH BEAUTIES.

You ask, dear Harry, how my time I spend,

Remote from country sports, my home, and friend,

What joys I find midst these sulphureous steams,

Why Ausis's banks prefer to gentle Toames.

If crowds delight me! or the eternal rounds

Or balls and play, with which this place abound?

Believe me, no! the cause. (if you'll attend)

Of my stay here, in humble strains I send,

And on your friendship for the faults depend.

 Herbert's good nature gives me constant joy,

Her virtue might the ablest pen employ

Easy to all, obliging to her friend,

Averse to censure, ready to commend,

Artless she seems, yet has the surest art

At once to conquer and secure a heart,

Indulgent nature has each grace supply'd,

Nor equal form to inward soul deny'd.

 Fair Nightingale in blooming youth appears,

Form'd to delight both these and future years,

An open freedom smiles around her face,

Adorns each look, and elevates each grace.

 Thrice happy sure is Walter in a bride,

Who would not thus in hymens bands be ty'd?

With native innocence and artless smile,

She'd anxious days or sharpest pain beguile.

A generous freedom every hour she shows,

And all her words a virtuous heart disclise,

From heroes sprung she emulates their fame,

And scorns to glory only in their name.

 Nature o'er-bounteous show's on Lethullier

Charms which midst numbers beauties would appear;

A form so lovely, with a voice so sweet,

Wou'd rouse the humble, and subdue the great;

If in the dance the moves, the crouded room

Give sure applause, and strike e'en envy dumb.

Gay but not giddy, merry yet not mad,

If free not forward, and if grave not sad.

 Crowiny with all the goods of fortune blest,

Of every virtue of the fool Possest;

None can repine at the decrees of heav'n,

When wealth to bounteous hands is largely giv'n.

Pleas'd she obeys the almighty's great command

And scatters blessings thro' an hungry land.

 Wheeler is beauteous still, tho' long a wife,

And seems to bloom in the noon of life,

 Bramston's good sense will certainly prevail;

When artful girls with silly triflings fail.

 Hunter and Grey unseperable pair,

In panegyricks have undoubted share,

Pleasure to all unartfully they give,

'Tis to the joy of humane kind they live.

 With gentle voice and modest down cast eyes,

Miss French with ease makes many a heart her prize,

 Woodward in bloom and glowing youth surveys

Mankind at distance, nor is mad for praise.

 Then wonder not dear Harry that I stay,

From hounds, from home, from thee, my friend, away.

Silent I stand, and casting round my eyes,

Esteem each fair one as a glorious prize:

Unknown my self, and unobserv'd, I view

With joy those dames who steady paths pursue;

From noise and art and giddy crowds I turn,

And where I can't applaud in silence moun.

 Thus from the summit of some cow'ring rock,

On different objects all around we look.

Here polish'd gardens, flowery fields we spy,

There rude uncultivated deserts lye;

Admire the first, but from the latter fly.

Writ on the Tomb-stone of an Infant.

Read this and weep———but not for me;

Lament thy longer Misery.

My life was short, my grief the less;

Blame not my haste to happiness.

On Wit.

To fetter Wit's a vain intent,

It gets more Fame by Punishment.

On WIT. From the Grubstreet Journal.

True wit is like the brilliant stone,

 Dug from the Indian mine;

Which boasts two various powers in one

To cut as well as shine.

Genius, like this, if polish'd right,

 With the same gifts abounds:

Appears at once both keen and bright,

 And sparkles while it wounds.

* * *

* * *

* * *

The Monthly Intelligencer.

APRIL, 1731.

* * *

Thursday, April 1.

MR. Philip Miller presented his Gardener's Dictionary to the Royal Society, who return'd him their unanimous thanks for that excellent usefull work.

Justice Webster was take into custody by three constables, and carried before the bench of justices, and gave bail to appear to what Mr. De Veil should alledge against him, for his violent assaulting him. See p. 125, 307.

The Assizes ended for the county of Devon, when the following criminals were sentenced to dye, viz. Robert Osmond, Richard Gay, Jos. Ellis, Grace Waldron, E. Lane, and Wm Haccaday; but the five last were repriev'd.

Ended the Assizes at Warwick, when sentence of death was pass'd on 3 malefactors, viz. Benj. Mallard, and Tho. Cox for burglary, and Giles Robins for Horse-stealing.

Friday, April 2.

The Assizes ended at Kingston, when the 3 following malefactors receiv'd sentence of death, viz. Wm Price and Peter Ward for burglary, and Christ. Brodrick for stealing 7 guineas and a gold ring out of a dwelling-house.

Mr. John Ockley, try'd at the same time for felony on the Waltham Black Act, and acquitted had a copy of his Indictment granted him, and the prosecutors order'd into custody for subornation of perjury.

Sunday, April 4.

At Alberhust in Cardiganshire, 100 large fish of near 6 yards in length were drove on shore by the Easterly wind, supposed to be grampusses.

Wednesday, April 7.

Chosen directors of the East India Company, for the year ensuing, *Sir Robt Baylis Kt. and Alderman, Doddington Braddyl Esq; Sir Wm Billers Kt. and Alderman, Charles Boone, Efq; Capt Rich. Boulton, Mr. Richard Blount, Fra. Child, Esq; and Ald. *John Cooke, Esq; *Dr. Caleb Cotesworth, Sir. Matthew Decker, Bart, Mr. John Eccleston, Mr. Leonard Gill, Capt Harry Gough, John Gould, Esq; John Gould, jun. Esq; Edward Harrison, Esq; John Heathcote, Esq; Baltazar Lyell, Esq; Benjamin Lethieuillier, Esq; John Page, Esq; *Mr Abraham Adams, Mr. Simon Theuneman, Mr Gerard Van Neck, *Mr Josias Wordsworth, jun.

Those mark'd thus * were chosen in the room of Henry Lyel Esq; deceased. John Bance, Peter Cock, John Drummond, William Gosselin, and Josias Wordsworth Esqrs:

Sir Edward Bellamy, Kt. and Alderman, chosen Governour of the Bank, and John Olmius, Esq; Dep. Gov.

Chosen Directors.

Robert Alsop Esq; and Ald, *Mr. Robert Atwood, * John Bance Esq; Sir Gerard Conyers Kt. and Ald. Thomas Cooke Esq; Delillers Carbonnel Esq; Sir Joseph Eyles, *Samuel Holden Esq; Mr. Barrington Eaton, Nath. Gould Esq; Sir Gilbert Heathcote Kt. and Ald. John Hanger Esq, Henry Herring Esq; *Mr. Wm. Hunt, Mat Howard Esq; Sir Wm. Jolliffe, Humphry Morrice Esq; Mr. Jos Pulce jun, John Rudge Esq; Matthew Raper Esq; Moses Raper Esq; *Wm: Snelling Esq; James Spilman Esq; *Horatio Townshend Esq; Those mark'd thus * in the room of Mr. Bryan Benson, Stamp Brooksbank Esq; Mr. Clement Boehm, Mr. James Gaultier, Wm. Fawkener, Christopher Lethieullier, John Nicoll, and John Olmins Esqs.

The D. of Bedford presented to the new Church in Bloomsbury, Communion plate, silver gilt with gold, his coat of arms engrav'd thereon, to the value of 100l.

At a court marshal held at Spithead John Barkley and Jonathan Stoker, who belong'd to his Majesty's ship the Weazel, were sentenced to receive each 104 lashes on their bare backs for putting a lighted match between the fingers of 2 men and a boy, who belong'd to a French vessel.

Friday, April 9.

Theodore Willet, one of Mess. Woodwards tellers was committed to Newgate, being charged with defrauding his masters of 8000 l. See p. 216.

The Convocation was prorogu'd to the 28th of May next.

Saturday, April 10.

Mr. Cheselden took from the body of Mr. Hartwel Buck, eldest son of George Buck of Biddiford in Devonshire, Esq; a large stone of 7 inches and a half round, weighing 5 ounces and a half; in the space of a minute.

Sunday, April 11.

Dr. Syddal was consecrated Bp of St. Davids at Ely Chapel.

Lord Kingsale's Lady delivered of a Son and Heir.

Wednesday, April, 14.

Mr. Macguire, a prize-fighter, had his nose cut clear from his face by Mr. Sutton, at Mr. Figg's amphitheatre.

Dr. Halley has laid proposals for finding the Longitude before the Comissioners appointed by Act of Parliament for that purpose.

Mary Meddun was try'd at Ennis in Ireland, for the murder of her Husband and son, by giving each of them a blow with a hatchet on the temple, of which they immediately died. The Jury brought her in guilty. 'Tis believed she murdered her first husband.

Thursday, April 15.

Being maundy-thurfday, there was distributed at the Banquetting-house, to 48 poor men, and 48 poor women (the King's age 48) boiled beef and shoulders of mutton, and small bowls of ale, which is called dinner; after that, large wooden platters of fish and loaves, viz. undress'd, 1 large old ling, and 1 large dry'd cod; 12 red herrings, and 19 white herrings, and 4 half quartern loaves; each person had one platter of this provision: after which was distributed to them shoes, stockings, linnen and woolen cloath, and leather bags with 1 penny, 2 penny, 3 penny, and 4 penny pieces of silver, and shillings: to each about 4l. in value. His Grace the Ld Archbishop of York, Ld High Almoner, performed the annual ceremony of washing the feet of a certain number of poor in the Royal Chappel, Whitehall, which was formerly done by the Kings themselves, in imitation of our Saviour's pattern of humility, &c. James II. was the Last King, who performed this in person.

21. One Wm Peters was commited to Goal in Ireland, being found alive, on a Journey, 3 days after he had been executed for Horsestealing.

Preachers before His Majesty at the Royal Chapel at St James's.

Friday 2. Dr. Booth, Dean of Windsor

Sunday 4. Bp of Bath and Wells.

Friday 9. Dr. Mawson.

11. The Bp of Bangor

Good Frid. The Bp of Limerick

Easter Day, Dean Gilbert, Sub-almoner

25. Dr Foukes.

Thursday, April 29.

Was held the annual meeting of the society for the relieving the sick and needy at the Infirmary in Westminster, when upon a review of their books it appeared, that the number of poor sick, who had been under their care for the year 1730, was 326; and that from the first erection of this infirmary in 1719, 2695 had been under their care; the most part of whom have been preserv'd from perishing by sickness and want, by the voluntary contribution of the said society.

DEATHS.

April 1. THE Rev. Mr Cha. Bearn, A.M. Chaplain to the Pr. of Wales.

The Wife of Justice Mercer, in Brownlow-street, near St. Giles's.

Joseph Vickers, Esq; at Cobham in Surry, a Gent. of a good Estate in Yorkshire.

3. Sir Gerard Roetiers, a Dutch Merchant, at his house in Laurence Pountney-Lane, knighted by his late Majesty.

Alexander Seymour, Esq; third son of Sir Edward Seymour, of Maiden Bradley, in Wilts, Bart. at Exeter.

4. Miss Thomas, a young Lady of 30,000 l. Fortune in Scotland-yard.

At Hamstead, Robert Packer, of Shellingford-castle in the county of Berks, Esq; who for 25 Years past had been constantly chosen Kt. of the Shire for that county. He married a Daughter of Sir Henry Winchcomb, Bar. sister to the late Lord Bolingbroke's first Lady.

5. Francis Lynn, Esq; Secretary to the Royal African Company.

6. The Rev. Mr. Jenks, preacher of St. Dunstan's in the West, and Rector of Grately in the county of Southampton.

Mr. John Levett, a Merchant, lately died at Constantinople.

7. The Rev. Mr. Wm Gissard, a Non-Juring Clergy-man.

8. Mrs. Elizabeth Cromwel, aged 82, daughter of the late Richard Cromwell, Once Lord Protector of these Realms.

The Rev. Mr. Murphy, A.M. Rector of Shoreham in Kent.

The Relict of Sir Francis Pemberton, Kt. Ld Chief Justice of the Common-Pleas, and King-bench, daughter of Sir Jeremy Whichcote, Bar.

9. John Nicholl, Esq; in Hatton-Garden, a Director of the Bank.

The Relict of Francis Tysson, late of Hackney, Esq.

Thomas Robson, Esq; at Car near Lancaster.

The Lady Katharine, Wife of Sir Wm Wyndham, Bar. She was second daughter to the D. of Somerset and sister to the countess of Thomond.

Robert Benson, Lord Bingley, Treasurer of the Houshold, and one of the Hon. Privy Council, formerly Chancellor of the Exchequer. He marry'd the Sister of the present E. of Aylesford. The Honour is become extinct. His last will and Testament having been open'd, he did thereby bequeath 100,000l. to Miss Harriet Benson, his Daughter, which is to be laid out in the Purchase of Lands for her; to his Widow, her Mother, 400 l. per annum over and above her Jointure, which is 1000l. per ann. 7000 l. to a young Lady; and another considerable Legacy to the Mother of the said Lady: besides many other great Legacies: He hath also left to his Steward 100 l. per ann. for his Life, and to all his Houshold Servants one Year's Wages. His Grace the Duke of Hamilton, Counsellor Hamilton, and Mr. Hoar the Banker, are Executors of the Will.

10. Anthony Lybbe, of Checkington in Oxfordshire, Esq; at Brentford.

11. The Lady of the A. Bp of Canterbury at Lambeth.

The Revd. Mr. Foxwell, Rector of Wrattlesden in Suffolk.

14. Mr. Latham, Clerk in the Inrollment Office in Chancery-lane.

17. Sir Baldwin Neville, at his House in George-street, Hanover-square.

17. The Lady Hecksletter.

11. The Hon. Oliver St. George, Esq; Member of Parliament for Dungannon in Ireland, Brother to the Lord St. George of that Kingdom, and of his Majestys Privy-Council, at his House in Grosvenor-Square. He was descended of an ancient Family that has flourished in Cambridgeshire, and other Parts of England, above 600 Years.

19 Mrs. Meggot, Relict of Mr. Meggot, the great Brewer, formerly Member of Parliament for the Borough of Southwark, at Hadley in Surry.

19. The Lady of the Lord Onslow, in Great Marlborough street.

Sir Baldwin Conyers, of Horden in Durham, and of Great Stoughton in Huntingdonshire, Bart.

Mr. Roger Lynch, Wine-merchant, one of the Governours of Bethlehem and Bridewell Hospitals, and Common-Council man for Billingsgate Ward.

Mr. Christopher Hussey, Apothecary in Black Friars, who prepared all the Galenical Medicines for the Navy.

20. Mr. Samuel Delme, only son of the late Sir Peter Delme by his last Lady, by whose death about 60,000 l. falls to his two brothers and sisters.

The Revd Dr. Little, one of the prebendaries of the cathedral at Norwich.

21. James Nicholson, Esq; pewterer to his Majesty, and chief clerk of the annuity pell office in the Exchequer.

22. Miss Meyrick, Daughter of Owen Meyrick, Esq; formerly Member of Parliament for Beaumaris in Wales. The Revd Dr. Biss, in Herefordshire, formerly Preacher of the Rolls.

The Lady Price in Childbed, Wife of Sir Thomas Price of Newton-Hall in Montgomeryshire, Bart. Daughter of the late Sir Thomas Powel, Knt one of the Justices of the King's Bench in the Reign of K. James II. who signaliz'd himself in delivering the Seven Bishops from the Tower.

23. Mrs Higginson, a dealer in Timber, and relict of Capt. Wm Higgins who lost his Life at the Siege of Lisle 1708.

24. Sir Wm Morgan, Bart, Knt. of the Bath, Lieutenant and Custos Rotulorum for the counties of Monmouth and Brecon, and one of the Knights of the shire for the said county of Monmouth, at his seat at Tredegar in Monmouthshire: He marry'd the lady Rachel, sister to the Duke of Devonshire.

Phil. Bampfield sen. Esq; Collector of the Excise at Bristol.

Orlando Bridgman, of Comb-Hall, near Ipswich in Suffolk, Esq; formerly Member of Parliament for that Borough.

25. Sir Henry Dutton Colt, Bart. created a Baronet at the revolution. He was several times Member of Parliament for the city of Westminster, was is the commission of the peace, but leaving no Issue male the title is extinct.

Sir Jermin D'ewes of Stow-Hall in Suffolk, Bt. descended from Otho Des Ewes of the Dutchy of Guelderland; but dying a batchelor the title is extinct.

The Wife of Henry Holt Henley, Esq; Representative in Parliament for Lyme.

Mrs Andrews, late Wife of ——— Andrews, Esq; of great Ormond street.

Samuel Steel, Esq; at his seat at Orton on the hill, in Leicestershire.

26. Richard Backwel, of Grays-Inn, Esq; eldest son of Alderman Backwel

Mrs Harrington, Wife of Hen. Harrington, Esq; Daughter of Rich. Backwel, Esq;

Mr. Daniel De Fue, sen. eminent for his many Writings.

Mr. Caleb Lowdham Surgeon and Man-Midwife, at Exeter; He left 4000l. the greatest part of his Estate from his own Daughter, a virtuous young Gentlewoman, to Sir Wm Courtnay's youngest Children.

Mr. Denton, a Counsellor, at his house in Grevil street.

MARRIAGES.

6. Sir Charles Blackwel of Norfolk, Bart. to Mrs. Clayton, Daughter of Wm. Clayton, of Marden in Surry, Esq;

Roger Bradshaigh, Esq; son and heir of Sir Roger Bradshaigh, of Haigh in Lancashire, Bart. to Miss Bellingham of Preston.

8. John Edwin, Esq; son of the late Sir Humphry Edwin, Bart. to Miss Bradshaigh, Daughter of Sir Roger Bradshaigh, Bart.

Francis Wilks, Esq; Merchant and Agent, for his Majesty's province of Massachusett bay, &c. in New England, to Miss Jefferys of Hatton Garden.

20. Jasper Aris Borradale, Esq; one of the clerks of the Admiralty, to Miss Tindal of Covent Garden.

The Son of Mr. Graves of Baldock in Hertfordshire, (a Lad of 14 Years of Age) to Mrs. Luke, Daughter of Sir Samuel Luke, a Maiden Lady, aged 70.

23. John Day of Winchester, Esq; to the Relict of Thomas Crane Esq;

Thomas Geers, Esq; Member of Parliament for the City of Hereford, to Miss Sarah Lutwyche, Daughter of Thomas Lutwyche, Esq; one of his Majesty's Council at Law. Mr. Geers was to change is name to Winford, Sir Thomas Cook Winford having settled upon him a considerable Estate upon the Marriage.

John Cray of Hampshire, to Miss Partington, Daughter to Capt. Partington, Commander of the Royal Navy.

Francis Hutchinson, Esq, Nephew to the Lord Effingham Howard, and Sewer to her Majesty, to the eldest Daughter of Thomas Tyrrel of Grisping Hall in the County of Suffolk, Esq;

28. Bernard Coachmaker of Westminster, Esq; an eminent Brewer, to Miss Knops, Daughter of a Dutch Merchant of this City.

PROMOTIONS.

Apr. 1. The Lord Aubrey Beauclerk made Commander of his Majesty's Ship Ludlow Castle of 40 Guns.

2. Lieut. Griffin made Commander of the Shoreham.

6. Major James Cholmondeley, Deputy Governor of the Castle of Chester appointed second Lieut. Colonel to the third Troop of Life-Guards, in the room of Col. Mohun deceas'd.

Mr. John Martin, Deputy Clerk of the Vestry of St George's Hanover square, made one of the Clerks in the Exchequer Office.

13. Mr. Claud Cressigny, appointed first Clerk to the Secretary's Office at the South Sea House.

Mr. Dresnon, made Page of the Presence to her Majesty, in the room of Mr. Brown, who is ill of the Palsy, and uncapable of Duty, but has his Salary of 40l. per ann. allow'd him during Life.

The Lord Anne Hamilton, Brother to the Duke of Hamilton, presented to the Colours in Col. Huck's Company in the 2d Regiment of Foot Guards.

Mr. Gledhill, (Son of Governor Gledhill) a Half-pay Officer, appointed Major of the Town and Garrison of Placentia, in Newfoundland.

Mr. Benj. Carpenter appointed Surveyor of Houses in Devonshire.

Charles Wither, Esq; made House-keeper of Cranborn Lodge, which was lately purchased for his Majesty.

Mr. Manning appointed Land-waiter for the Port of London, in the room of Mr. Paxton, deceased

Dr. Wilmot, Son-in-Law to Dr. Mead, made Physician extraordinary to the Queen.

Sir Robert Innis, Bart. made Ensign in Brigadier Tyrril's Regiment.

Mr. Collier, a Clerk in the Bank, appointed one of the Cashiers in the room of Mr. Shenton, deceased.

Walter Chetwynd, Esq; Member of Parliament for Litchfield in Staffordshire, made Governor of Barbadoes, in the room of Gov. Worsley, recall'd, Mr. Chetwynd, who attended Brig. Gen. Sutton when Envoy, goes his Secretary.

24. James Green, Esq; upon Half-pay, appointed Capt. Lieutenant in the Lord Tyrawley's Regiment of Invalids.

John Selman, Esq; appointed Clerk of the Dutchy Court of Lancaster, a Place worth 1000 l. per Ann.

James Whitwick, Esq; is made chief Clerk to the Pay-master of his Majesty's annual Pensions and Bounties, in the room of James Nicholson deceas'd. And

Wm. Stuart, Esq; Member for Air, &c. in Scotland, made Pay-master of the Pensions in the room of Walter Chetwynd, Esq;

29. Mr. Reynardson was chosen Accomptant of the Turkey Company.

The Hon. Col. Cosby was appointed General and Governor in and over his Majesty's Leward Islands in the West Indies.

20. William Cowper, Esq; and the Rev. Mr. John Cowper, Chaplain in Ordinary to his Majesty, and Rector of Great Berkhamstead in the County of Hertford, were (upon the Decease of Orlando Bridgman, Esq;) appointed Clerk of the Commissioners of Bankrupcy.

Wardel George Westby, Esq; Member of Parliament for Malton in Yorkshire, made a Commissioner of the Customs.

Richard Arundel Esq; Member of Parliament for Knaresborough in Yorkshire, made a Surveyor of his Majesty's private Roads.

Ecclesiastical Preferments conferr'd on the following Reverend Gentlemen.

Robert Friend, D. D. head Master of Westminster School, appointed Prebendary of Westminster Abby, in the room of Dr. Thistlethwait, and is to hold his Prebend of Windsor.

Philip Bearcraft, D. D. presented to the Vicarage of Elham, in the Diocess of Canterbury, in the room of Mr. Hill deceased.

Mr. Stephen Greenhill presented to the Rectory of Levington, vacant by the Resignation of Mr. Luck; and also appointed perpetual Curate of Egerton in the same Diocese, in the room of Mr Halford.

Mr. James Thomas presented to the Rectory of Kellan in Cardiganshire, vacant by the Death of Mr. Jones.

Mr. Walter Brigg, Batchelor of Laws, and Fellow of Winchester College, presented to the Living of Worting, near Basingstoke in Hampshire, void by the Resignation of his Brother.

CASUALTIES.

MR. Newcomb of Chester, who had received several threatning Letters, one Evening in the dark was heard to cry out help! help! and found, his Brains dashed out, at the bottom of the Steps, at the end of Fishmonger's Lane.

At Caston in Norfolk, the Wife of one Thomas Denny desir'd her Nurse to go for Milk, in the mean while cut the Throat of her Daughter about 8 Year old, and of her Son about 10, who both died in two hours: After that, she cut her own Throat, but not effectually.

Charles Creagh, Esq; and ——— Macnmemara, Esq; between whom an old grudge of three Years had subsisted, which had occasion'd their being bound over about fifty times for breaking the Peace, meeting in Company with Mr. Eyrer of the County of Galloway, the former discharg'd their Pistols, and all three were kill'd on the spot. To the great joy of their peaceful Neighbours, say the Irish Papers.

7. The Barns and Out-houses of Mr. Mackrell, High-Constable of Enfield, were set on fire, as supposed, by some Incendiary, by which the same, and a great quantity of Wheat were soon consum'd.

8. Mr. Wollaston Skenton, one of the Cashiers of the Bank of England, shot himself in the Head, and died immediately. 'Tis believed that some concern with Mess. Woodwards, or their Servant Willet, occasion'd this sad Catastrophe.

9. As one Edward Searle, a Barber at Leicester, was shooting a Gun up a Chimney that was on fire, the barrel burst and tore his Throat and Windpipe so, that he died in less than an hour.

A Farmer's Boy at Powick in Worcestershire, crush'd against an iron catch of Stable-door, by a Horse, which penetrating his Throat, kill'd him on the spot.

Mary Frey, a Farmer's Wife near Kengsington Square, took white Mercury, and died in about four hours.

An aged Woman in little Sword-bearers Alley, near Morefields, cut her Throat, and died immediately.

23. One Mr. Pottecary, a Button Seller near St. Olave's Church Southwark, shot himself through the Head and died immediately.

26. Charles Cooper, a Cheesmonger's Son in Southwark not having his Task ready, left his Satchel and Books at a Shop, flung himself into the Thames, and was drown'd.

27. One Crane flung off a Cart near Edmonton, and kill'd on the spot, the Wheel running over his Breast.

28. One Sharp, Servant to Mr. Day the Brewer in Piccadilly, fell down a pair of Stairs, and died next Day.

30. A Boy kill'd by falling upon Iron Spikes from a Lamp-Post, which he climb'd up to see Mother Needham stand in the Pillory.

SHIPS Lost.

LEtters from Santa Crux in South Barbary advise, that by a dreadful Storm of Wind, which happen'd the latter end of January last, the following Ships then riding at Anchor, in the said Bay, were loft, viz. The Catharine Brigg, Capt. Gascoinge Finch, founder'd, and most of her Crew drown'd. The Crew of the Leghorn Sloop, Capt. Michael Oxenberry, perish'd. The Leghorn Factor Brig. Capt. Arnold, founder'd, the Mate and four Mariners drowned. Out of all the Ships and Cargoes, not the value of 20 l. Sterling was saved. The Wreck that came on Shore the Moors carried off.

Abstract of the London WEEKLY BILL from Tuesday, April 6. to Tuesday April 27.

Christned Males 725 1429

Females 704

Buried Males 963 2002

Females 1039

Of which dy'd (Casualties 41) of Consump. 298, Fevers 238, Small pox 160.

Died under 2 Years old ——— 705

Between 2 and 5 ——— 121

Between 5 and 10 ——— 82

Between 10 and 20 ——— 67

Between 20 and 30 ——— 152

Between 30 and 40 ——— 208

Between 40 and 50 ——— 179

Between 50 and 60 ——— 208

Between 60 and 70 ——— 123

Between 70 and 80 ——— 93

Between 80 and 90 ——— 47

Between 90 and 100 ——— 8

BANKRUPTS.

ANNE Woodward, of Reading, Berkshire, Widow, Vintner, and Innholder.

James Bradshaw, of London, Warehouse-man and Chapman.

Francis March, of London, Merchant.

Charles Oaks, of Uttoxeter, Staffordshire, Chapman.

Christopher Saunders, of Cricklade, Wiltshire, Mercer.

Peter Elliot, of Mansfield, Nottinghamshire, Chapman, and dealer in Hose.

Humphry Wilcocks, of Exon, Upholsterer.

Robert Reading of New Sarum, Wiltshire, Vintner and Inholder.

William Beatniffe, of St. Giles in the Fields, Middlesex, Coachmaker.

Bryan Meeds, of Wainfleet All Saints, Lincolnshire, Mercer.

Jeremiah Gawkroger, of Bradford, Yorkshire, Shalloon-maker.

William Broughton, of Wakefield, Yorkshire, Grocer.

Thomas Barber, Senr. of Stone, Staffordshire, Innholder and Vintner.

James Medlicot, of Milborne Port, Somersetshire, Chapman.

James Haymes, of London, Salesman.

Samuel Travers, of London, Oylman.

William Adderley, of Coventry, Tallow-Chandler and Haberdasher.

Anthony de Paz, of London, Merchant.

Augustine Read, of Buxton, Norfolk, Chapman.

John Bollings, of Bethnal Green, Middlesex, Rope-maker and Merchant.

Anthony Ashfield, of Pershore, Worcestershire, Mercer.

Susanna Tidmarsh, Widow, of Spittlefields, Middlesex, Weaver.

Elward Davis Jun. of Studley, Wiltshire, Clothier.

Ambrose Goldsmith, of Wells, Norfolk, Merchant.

Charles Jordan, of Gateshead, Durham, Mercer.

Hall Bromhead, and William Clasby, condemn'd at the Assizes held at Lincoln, were executed the 26th of March last. Both confess'd the Facts for which they suffer'd. Bromhead said, he was aged 22 Years, born at Epworth in Lincolnshire, of honest industrious Parents, who bound him Apprentice to Mr. Burton of Gainsborough; and that a criminal Correspondence with a lewd Woman was the first Step to his Ruin. Own'd that he wrote and sent the Letter to Mr. Hadwick, of following purport, viz. I desire you to leave 10s under a Stone at Kirton great Gate, which joyns to the Common; if you do not, you will be shot, and your House set on fire.

William Clasby, executed at the same time, aged 50, declar'd himself innocent of the Fact (viz. Horse-stealing) for which he suffer'd; said he was born of honest Parents, and brought up to Husbandry, got his Living honestly, and wrong'd no body, but was deceiv'd and betray'd by one John Hague, whom he freely forgave.

At the Assizes held at York, the 3 following Malefactors receiv'd Sentence of Death viz. Benjamin Armitt, James Wood, and John Ward. Matthew Blackburn, capitally convicted at the same time, had his Pardon, being made Hangman. The 2 first were executed at Tyburn, near York, March 29th.

Benjamin Armitt, was born at Eskrik, of honest Parents, and brought up a Miller at Landmill. Declar'd that he took the Boy (for whose Murder he was about to suffer) in January last, and kept him as one of his Family till the first of March, when he died; that the Boy being but indifferently manner'd, and spoiling the Bed, he beat him with a Switch, put a Belt about his Neck, threatning to hang him, threw Duug at him, as he pass'd by him, which fell'd him down, and said he would bury him with it, being what he lov'd, but without design to hurt his Life; and begg'd pardon of God and Man for his past Offences.

James Wood, condemn'd for breaking open the Mayor of Pontefract's Shop, and stealing from thence 25l. own'd himself guilty of that and another Burglary at Doncaster, but denied several others laid to his Charge.

John Ward, born at Patrington, aged about 20; convicted of robbing Mr. Briscoe, own'd that and some other Robberies, and died penitent.

Five were sentenc'd to Transportation, and 3, try'd for sending threatning Letters, acquitted.

At the Affizes held at Presteigne in South-Wales, March 31st, Wm Williams was try'd for the Murder of John Williams, his elder Brother, upon the 4th of Jan. last, in the Night-time, (as related p. 30.) of which he was found guilty. He was executed the 14th Inst. on a Gibbet erected at Glasbury Common, and afterwards hung in Chains. He confessed the Fact, and died penitent.

William Crowne, was executed at Gloucester, having been condemned for a Robbery on the Highway. His behaviour from his Condemnation to his Execution, manifestly argued the sincerity of his Repentance for his past Sins, none of which he lamented so much as his undutifulness to his indulgent Mother, he being her only Child, and about 28 Years of Age. He utterly denied the Fact for which he suffered, and left a Paper with the Under-Sheriff to the following purpose. That he most solemnly declared his Innocence of the Crime laid to his Charge; and that he was never guilty of Robbery Murder, or Theft; that he was descended of honest Parents, and educated tenderly, but disregarding their kind Admonitions, was brought to this Shameful End; that he died in Charity with all Men, and forgave his Prosecutors.

Mary Lynn, Condemn'd last Assizes for the County of Norfolk, was burnt to ashes at a Stake, for being concern'd in the Murder of her Mistress; and Smith, the Principal, was hang'd for the same Fact. She deny'd her being guilty, and said Smith could clear her if he would. She behav'd with Decency, and died Penitent. Smith was drunk at the Gallows; and seem'd to have but little Sense either of his Crime or Punishment; however desir'd all Masters to pay their Servants Wages on Saturday Night, that they might have Money to spend, and not run in Debt. Said, My Mother always told me I should die in my Shoes, but I will make her a Lier; so threw them off.

Robert Sealy a Horsestealer, condemn'd at the Assizes held at Taunton, for the County of Somerset, was executed April 7. at Ilchester. Henry White condemn'd for stealing a Mare, Joseph Benison for Housebreaking, James White for Felony, were all three Reprieved. Eight discharg'd on paying their Fees, no Evidence appearing against them, viz. Tyler and Edward Barfield, alias Ned the Plaisterer, charg'd with writing and dropping threatening Letters; John Power, Bethel Weston, William Coffey, and John Maddison, charg'd on suspicion of setting fire to Mr. Packer's House in Bristol; Sarah Potter charg'd with the Murther of Mary Chapman, and Philip Timewell with robbing the Taunton Coach.

Foreign Affairs.

Naples, March 23. N.S.

ON the 20th instant, about 4 in the morning an earthquake was felt here for 3 minutes, which alarm'd the whole city, many people running out of their houses to the open places, and those that had conveniency remained abroad in tents the next and the following nights. There has not been a repetition or damage done hereabouts; but Foggio, a city in Apuglia, about 100 miles off, is two thirds demolish'd, and near 2000 persons buried under the ruins; Ascoli and some other towns in that neighbourhood, have suffer'd much.

An account from Rouen, says that the wife of Mr. Demay being in labour of her first child, and in danger of losing her life, Father Breard a Jesuit, was sent for to administer spiritual consolation, who finding the lady could but be delivered of a dead child, the good man resolved to try to baptise it in the womb, and accordingly made use of an instrument for that purpose.

Leyden, Ap. 10. They write from Toulon, that father Giraud, Rector of the college of Jesuits there, had seduced a young damsel named Cadieres, to whom he had been several years confessor: this reverend father had suggested to her by visions and inspiration, and so wrought upon her, as to make her believe, that it was necessary she should commit with him the sin of fornication, in order to release a soul out of purgatory: the young woman, confiding in all that the confessor told her, consented to his demand: and a little time after it appeared that this Jesuit, by pretending to release a soul out of purgatory, had procreated another. Her mother, sensibly touched with the dishonour done to her daughter, complained immediately to the Bishop and Magistrates of Thoulon; but instead of having the justice done her which she had reason to promise herself, they defamed the damsel, and took it as an affront done to the father, and had her shut up in a convent of the Ursulines; this extremity obliged the mother to appeal to Cardinal de Fleury.

'Tis written from Rome, That Cardinal Coscia, being cited to appear according to law, thought fit to withdraw. His brother Bp of Targa was order'd into a convent.

Vienna, Ap. 18. Yesterday the court received an express from Constantinople, with advice that the Janizaries had revolted again; so that the grand Seignor was obliged to retire to Adrianople, and that the Turks breath'd nothing but war against the christians.

Seville, April 24. The King of Spain sign'd an order for the immediate commencement of the delivering the Flota's treasure to the commerce, on the ancient Indulto of 5 percent; which was very agreeable to the merchants.

Extract of the Treaty of Peace between the Emperor, and King of Great Britain, and the Dutch, concluded and sign'd at Vienna, March 16. 1731. N. S.

I. "There shall be a general peace and tranquillity between the contracting powers, who shall mutually guaranty the respective territories which they now actually do, or may hereafter possess.

II. "The King of Great Britain and the States-general shall guaranty to the Emperor the pragmatical sanction of his territories, as it is recited at large in the present treaty.

III. "The Emperor consents not only to the introduction of 6000 Spaniards into the respective States of Tuscany, Parma, and Piacenza, but moreover promises to make use of his Sovereign Authority for the execution of this article; and that he will procure the consent of the dyet of Ratisbon in two months.

IV. "The foregoing articles shall not be changed or altered.

V. "The Ostend company is from this time and for ever hereafter abolished; and the inhabitants of the Austrian Netherlands shall not be permitted to establish in the Netherlands, or in any other place which was formerly under the government of King Charles II. of Spain, and is now in the Emperor's possession, any traffick, commerce, or navigation to the Indies; only they shal be permitted, once for all, to send from the port of Ostend to the Indies two ships, to bring home the merchandizes, goods, effects, &c. which remain there; and the said effects, so brought home, freely and publickly to expose to sale.

VI. "Commissaries on both sides shall be sent to Antwerp, to settle the tariff; which shall be finished within two years. The other differences shall likewise be amicably adjusted, without having recourse to arms.

VII. "The commerce of Naples and Sicily shall remain upon the same foot, as it was settled in time of King Charles II.

VIII. "It shall be free for al Princes and States to enter into the present treaty within the space of six months, provided it be with the consent of the contracting parties.

IX. "The Guaranty of the pragmatical sanction does not comprehend any obligation against the Emperor of the Turks.

There is annex'd to this treaty a declaration touching the VI. article; whereby they engage to put an end as soon as possible, and in friendly way, to the difference of east Friesland.

It is farther declared, that the Imperial troops shall quit the dutchies of Parma and Piacenza, whether the dutchess-dowager be with child or not, as soon as the Spanish troops shall enter the same, in order to take possession thereof.

N. B. For what regards the misunderstanding between the imperial court and the electorate of Hanover about the affairs of Mecklenburg, that is adjusted in a separate treaty.

1. T

he Fools Opera, &c. by Mat. Medley, pr. 6d.

The Gentleman's Pocket-Farrier, &c. By Capt. Will. Burdon. [At Opportunities we shall give our Readers some account of this Book.

The Original of Pain and evil, &c, By John Henly, M. A. pr. 6d.

2. A second Letter from a Hawker and Pedlar in the Country to a Member of Parliament in London, pr. 6d.

3. The present state of the Republick of Letters, for February, pr. 1s.

Calista: an Opera after the Manner of the Beggar's Opera.

The Religion of Nature considered: with a PostScript on Mr. Chubb's Discourse concerning Reason, &c. pr. 2s.

The Interest of England, with respect to the woollen manufacture: with Remarks on some Thoughts, &c.

A Literary Journal for January, February, and March, pr. 2s.

5. The Gentleman's Magazine, &c. No. 3. for March.

Reasons for deferring or amending the Bill, that all Proceedings in Courts of Justice shall be in the English Language, pr. 3d.

Considerations on a dispute now depending before the Hon. House of Commons, between the British southern and northern Plantations in America, pr. 6d.

6. The strength and weakness of Humane Reason, &c.

Miscellaneous observations on Authors, ancient and modern, No. IV.

The great duty and happiness of living quiet and peaceable: an Assize Sermon at New Sarum, March 6, 1530. By Rob. Clavering, Rector of St. Peter's in Marlborough, &c.

7. The reasonableness of Church and College Fines, asserted, &c. in answer to, An Enquiry into the customary Estates, &c.

8. The Importance of the sugar Colonies to Great Britain stated, &c. pr. 6d.

The monumental inscription on the column at Blenheim-house, &c. pr. 6d.

A true estimate of the Value of Leasehold estates, annuities, &c. in anfwer to Sr. Isaac Newton's Tables, &c.

Animadversions on a Rev. Prelates Remarks upon a Bill to prevent suits for tythes: By a Member of the House of Commons, pr. 6d.

A defence of the Church's right in Leasehold estates: in answer to an enquiry into the customary estates and tenant rights, &c. By W. Derham, D.D.

9. The Life of Mr. Cleveland, natural son of Oliver Cromwell: written by himself, 2 Vols. 12mo.

The Political State of Great Britain, for March, pr. 1s. 6d.

10. Orestes: a dramatick Opera: written by Mr. Theobald.

The 11th Volume of the civil History of the Kingdom of Naples: written in Italian by Pietro Giannone, and translated by Capt. James Ogilvie.

The occasional Historian, No. II. By Mr. Earbery. pr. 1s.

12. Plain reasons for the growth of Sodomy in England, with effectual means to prevent the same, &c. pr. 6d.

Latin Verbs formed, conjucated, declined with the English Verbs, &c.

Some observations on the present State of Ireland, &c. pr. 6d.

13. The Happiness of a Nation dependant upon the principles and conduct of its Governors, an Assize Sermon at Taunton, March 14, 1730-1. By Thomas Coney, D. D.

The Constant Lovers; being an entertaining history of the amours and adventures of Solenus and Perrigonia, Alexis and Sylvia, &c. By John Littleton Costeker, Gent.

The Historical Register, No. 61.

The Gardiner's Dictionary: By Philip Miller, F.R.S.

The Mourner; or the afflicted relieved: By B. Grosvenor, D.D.

Some Observations on the present state of the dissenting interest, pr. 6d.

Lecture 3. on the Belles Lettres, and forming a fine taste, by J. Henly, pr. 6d.

14. A Dessertation on Estates upon lives and years, whether in Lay or Church Hands, &c. By Edward Lawrence, pr. 1s.

The Perspective: or Calista dissected, &c. pr. 1s.

15. The Monthly Chronicle for March.

The St. James's Miscellany, &c, pr. 6d.

A Letter to a Member of the House of Commons, relating to the Treaty concluded at Vienna, March 16. N. S. with remarks on the said Treaty, pr. 1s.

A Collection of Poems, &c. By the Author of the Duel, a Poem, pr. 1s.

17. A Letter to the Vicar of St. Aldates, Oxon, occasion'd by some passages in his Sermon lately published, pr. 6d.

19. A Letter to his Excellency Mr. Ulrick D'Ypres, chief Minister to the King of Sparta, &c. By Eustace Budgell, Esq; pr. 1s.

20. The Church of England Man's Instructor, being an explanation of all the Fasts and Feasts of the Church of Engl. &c. Illustrated with Cuts.

21. A Mechanical Dissertation on the Lues Venerea, &c. By J. S. pr. 1s.

The present state of Europe, &c. for March.

The second part of a critical examination of the late new text and version of the new Testament in Greek and English, &c. By Leonard Twells.

23. A new account of the Confusion of Tongues, &c. By J. H.

24. An Answer to the remarks upon the bill concerning tythes, lately published in the Whitehall Evening Post, pr. 6d.

The History of Benducar the great, prime minister to Muley Mahomet, and Muley Molugh, Emperors of Morocco, &c. pr. 1s.

A Defence of the courage, honour and loyalty of the Irish nation, in answer to the scandalous reflections of the Free Briton, &c. By Cha. Forman, Esq;

A Journey to Bristol: or the honest Welchman, a Farce of 2 acts: written by John Hippisley, Comedian, pr. 1s.

26. The Religious ceremonies and customs of the several nations of the known World, &c. translated from the French, in 3 vols. folio.

A Dialogue on beauty, in the manner of Plato, By George Stubbes, M.A.

27. Lecture IV. on the languages ancient and modern, By John Henley, M.A. pr 6d.

Mr. Stackhouse's Defence of the christian religion, from the several objections of modern Antiscriptorists, &c.

Some reflections on prescience, in which the nature of the divinity is enquired into. pr. 1s.

Fabular observations recommended, as the plainest and surest way of practising and improving phyfick: by Francis Clifton, M.D. pr. 6d.

Morgan's Phoenix Britannicus, No. 1. 4to. pr. 2s. 6d.

The ecclesiastical history of M. L'Abbe Fleury. No 1s. vol. v. p. 2.

28. Historia Literaria, No. IX. Vol. II. p. 3. pr. 1s.

29. The present state of the republick of letters, for March 1731.

A letter from Waitwell Longhead Esq; of Freeland Manor in the county of Bucks, to his friend Sir Politick Woodbe, president of a weekly assembly of Quidnuncs, near the Royal Exchange, London.

Observations in Gardening for MAY, 1731.

IF ill whether or other Accidents has prevented a Gardiner from performing what has been recommended for the works of the last month, let them be no longer delay'd than the first week in this; for now the season is so far advanced that a day lost is equal to a week in January, February, or March.

About the beginning of this month sow Cucumbers in the natural ground, put about twelve seeds in each hole, but leave only four or five when they come up.

Replant Imperial and Silesia Lettuce if you have any big enough, and if any of the Imperial Lettuce are cabbag'd, out the top cross-ways that the flower stems may the more eadily shoot for seeding.

Sow some of the dutch brown Lettuce, to be planted out for cabbaging in June.

Transplant Coliy-flower Plants, and make your first drills for Sellery if your plants are large enough.

Sow Rouncival Peale, and towards the end, earth up and plant those which were sown in the former month.

Sow Purslane upon the natural ground and Cabbages.

We may now sow some Endive very thin to be blanch'd without transplanting.

Sow Sweet Marjoram, Basil, Thyme, hot and aromatick herbs, and plants which are the most tender.

An Alphabetical List of Fairs to the 12 of June, continued from our last, the moveable Fairs being in this Character, and reduced to the Days of the Month.

MAY.

13 Albrighton, Shropsh

Bala

Burton on Trent, Lincsh

Banbury, Oxfordsh

Bradstead, Kent

Burnel

Bridgend, Glamorgansh

27 Broadstreet, Kent

Budley, Devonsh

Beaumaris, Angl.

30 Burlington, Yorksh

15 Camelford, Cornwall

29 Cranbrook, Kent

14 Chalbury, Oxfordsh

27 Chaple in Frith, Derbsh

Cearn Abbey, Dorsetsh

Cheltenham, Gloucsh

Chewton, Somersetsh

Cutcomb, ib.

Cilcutton, Cornwall

28 Chippingnorton, Oxf

29 Castleton, Dorsetsh

14 Dagenham, Essex

22 Dorchester

27 Devizes, Wilts

Darkin, Surry

Dicker, Sussex

Englesfield, Sussex all Rogation Week

Elmoregreen, Dorsetsh

Eccleshall, Staffordsh

Erith, Kent

Egglestow

Farnham, Surry

20 Greenstreet

19 Hereford

27 Henly on Thames, Oxf

Hallaton, Leicestersh

24 Inglesfield, Lancash

Ingleswait

17 Kinderminster, Worcsh

Kellington, Cornwall

Kinnow

15 Langaranny, Cardsh

36 Lenham, Kent

Liston, Devonsh

Liskard, Cornwall

Lutterworth, Leicsh

Lidford, Somersetsh

13 Merin

19 Mayfield, Sussex

Malmsbury, Wilts

27 Montgomery

Middlewich, Cheshire

Newbury, Berks

19 Odehill

31 Pershore, Worcsh

27 Plymton, Devonsh

Penhall, Cornwall

19 Rochester, Kent

27 Ross, Herefordsh

Rich, Cumberland, all Rogation Week

Rone

Rippon, Yorksh

28 St Germans, Cornw

25 Somerton, Somersetsh

27 Scarborough, Yorksh

Sodbury, Gloucestersh

Southhovey, Devonsh

Stockbridge, Hants

Stockport, Cheshire

Stratford on Avon, War

11 Tallowdown, Dors

30 Thaxsted, Essex

15 Welshpole, Shropsh

13 Winterborn, Gloucsh

27 Witney, Oxfordsh

Weobly, Herefordsh

Wiggan, Lancash

Yarme, Yorksh

JUNE.

3 Alesbury, Bucks

9 Abington, Berksh

11 Axbridge, Somersetsh

Amesbury, Wiltsh

Appledore, Kent

3 Ashborn, Derby sh

8 Ashby de la Zouch

7 Agmondesham, Bucks

7 Appleby

Agmondeham, Bucks

11 Bremel Norfolk

9 Basingstoke, Hants

7 Burton Lancash

8 Bampton, Devonsh

Bookland, ib.

Broad-henbury, ib.

10 Burwell, Bucks

Bow, Middlesex

1 Chapel in Frith, Derb

11 Chippenham, Wiltsh

Chudleigh, Devonsh

7 Cockermouth, Cumb

Comb-marton, Devonsh

8 Chichester, Suffex

Canend, Oxfordsh

Chipping

Canterbury, Kent

Cakefield, Suffolk

9 Derby

7 Dorrington

Dunster, Somersetsh

Dryfield, Yorksh

8 Daventry, Northash

7 Exeter

Evesham, Worcestersh

Epping, Essex

1 Farringdon, Berksh

Fenchamstead, ditto

11 Grampound

7 Great-warley, Essex

8 Graies, Essex

6 Hindon Wiltsh

7 Helston, Cornwall

Harseley-Green, Lanc

Hadlow, Kent

8 Hartland, Devonsh

6 St Ivey, Huntingdonsh

9 Ilsley, Berksh

Ightham, Kent

11 Kinwilgar, Carmarth

7 Kerby-Stephen, Westm.

Kington, Herefordsh

8 Knotsford, Cheshire

Knavestock, Essex

11 Llanibithew

Lanwist Carnar.

Landilovawr,

Ledbury, Herefordsh

7 Leek, Staffordsh

Lanson Cornwall

Lenkam, Kent

Lewis, Sussex

Linton, Cambridgesh

Landaff, Glamorgansh

8 Leighton-buzzard

Longnor, Staffordsh

9 Lindedon

5 Milborn-port, Som.

6 Milton, Kent

9 Maidstone, ib.

11 Market-jew, Cornw.

Maxfield, Chesh

12 Manhemor, Cornw.

3 Malton, Yorksh

7 Middleham, ib.

Midlome

8 Malden, Essex

Monmouth

Midhurst, Sussex

Melton-mowbry, Leic.

9 Maidenhead, Berksh

81 Newnham, Gloucsh.

Newport-pagnel, Buc.

Newborough, Angles

2 Newent, Gloucestersh

5 Newinn

7 Northfleet, Kent.

Newport, Hants

9 Newark on Trent

11 Ockington, Berksh

7 Oundle, Northampsh

Ormskirk

11 Porlock, Somerfersh

8 Panswick, Gloucsh

Penreth, Cumberland

9 Ponte-stephen

4 Ryston, Somersetsh

7 Ryehill

Ryegate, Surry

8 Rochford, Essex.

Randal Lancashire

9 Royston, Hartfordsh

11 Stavord, Somersetsh

Swansey, Glamsh.

11 Shipston on Stower

Selby, Yorksh

Stockland, Dorsetsh

5 Southmolton, Devonsh

7 Skipton in Craven, York

Sleaford, Lincolnsh

Salford

Stow, Monmouthsh

Stockclear

Salisbury, Wiltsh

9 Sandbach, Chesh

10 Sale, Kent

11 Tewkesbury, Glouc.

7 Thorn Yorksh

8 St Toffels

9 Truro, Cornwall

10 Upton on Severn, Worc.

7 Worksen

5 Wisbich, Cambridgesh

7 Whitchurch, Hants

Wallingford, Berksh

Westbury, Wiltsh

Walgrove, Berksh

Wandsworth, Surry

Woodstock, Oxfordsh

St Winard, Monmsh

The Letter from Buckinghamshire concerning Fairs shall be observed.

