The Gentleman's Magazine, Volume 1 — March, 1731

Exported from Wikisource on May 12, 2026

* * *

THE

Gentleman's Magazine:

Or, TRADER's

Monthly Intelligencer.

* * *

Numb. III. for MARCH, 1731.

* * *

CONTAINING,

I. A View of the Weekly Essays and Controversies. viz. A Plea for the Jews; for and against Englishing Law-Proceedings, Of Applause; Civil Liberty; Inconstancy; Soldiers; Solitude; Impudence; Orator Henley; Partiality to Children; Government; K. James I. Corruption; Sedition; Happiness; Coffee-Grounds; Pleasure; Education; Opinions; Beggars; Grievances; E. B-—l Esq; Ld O--d, Ld B--ke.

II. Remarks on Impropriations, and on the Bill in Parliament concerning Tythes.

III. Rules for valuing Bar-Silver, and turning the Course of Exchange to Advantage.

IV. A TABLE shewing the Stamps requir'd to all Instruments or Writings whatever.

V. Method to write on Bank-Notes to prevent Mail-robbing.

VI. Accounts of Malefactors.

VII. Foreign and Domestick Occurrences, Deaths, Births, Marriages, Preferments, Prices of Goods and Stocks, Bankrupts declar'd.

VIII. Books, &c. publish'd.

IX. Observations in Gardening, and a List of Fairs for the Season.

* * *

By SYLVANUS URBAN of Aldermanbury, Gent.

* * *

Prodesse & Delectare.

* * *

The Second Edition.

* * *

CONTENTS.

A Plea for the Jews, p. 97

Law-hands, and Law-language, the Benefit of 98

———the Absurdity of, 120

Of popular Applause, ibid.

Almanacks, Hottentots, Bigamy and Manslaughter, 99

Of Liberty, ibid.

Causes of the Intricacy, Expence, and Confusion of Law-Proceedings, 100

Of Inconstancy; a Comparison; A recommendation of Mr. Pless and his Wife, 101

———Answer to two of these 103

Considerations on three Political Pamphlets, ibid.

On limiting the time Soldiers are to serve in the Army ib.

———burlesq'd 114

Of Solitude, 102

Extract of the Register of Parliament at Paris, concerning Libels 103

Of Impudence, 104

Partiality in Parents to their Children 104

Of Popular Discontent, 105

Remarks on the Reign of K. James I. 106

Of Englishing the Law, ibid.

Of Corruption, 107

Of Republican Principles, 108

Criticism on Hudibras; Charitable Corporation; Orator Henley, ibid.

Reflections on E. B———l, Esq; and Ld B———ke 109

Of Sedition, 110

Of Coffee-Grounds, ibid.

Remarks on a Bill depending in Parliament to prevent Suit for Tythes, &c. 111

A Rule to determine the Val. of Bar-Silver, and use 112

Collet's Course of Exchange,———the Advantage of it 121

The Earl of Oxford's Conduct confider'd, 113

Easiness of Belief, the Ground of Complaints, 113

Remarks on the Reign of K. James I. 114

History of Patriotism, 115

Of the Excise, ibid.

Memoirs of Mrs. Oldfield's Life, 116

Of common Beggers, ibid.

Of Pleasure, 117

Of Impropriations, 118

Of Corruption, its Causes and Remedies, 119

Of Happiness, 120

Method of writing on Bank-Notes sent by the Post to prevent robbing the Mails 122

Domestick Occurrences, 123

Deaths, Malefactors, 126, 127

Promotions 129

Marriages, Casualties, 130

Ecclesiastical Preferments 131

Bankrupts, ibid.

Foreign Affairs, 132

A Table of Stamps, 133

Scheme of the Lottery, 134

Weekly Bills, ibid.

Books published, 135

Prices of Goods 137

Fairs, 139

Observations on Gardening 140

* * *

* * *

* * *

THE

Gentleman's Magazine:

MARCH, 1731.

* * *

A View of the Weekly ESSAYS in this Month.

Extract of a Letter from a Correspondent to the Daily Courant.

The Jews Defended.

HE pleads the Cause of the Jews, in Answer to the Arguments advanced against them in the Post-boy, (see No. II. of the Gentleman's Magazine p. 76.) wherein they are represented as Creatures unworthy of our Community, and Banes and Pests to all the Race of Mankind.

Considers whether this People deserved that cruel Treatment which they met within past infatuated Ages.

That they ought not, he believes, none will deny, who reflect, that 'tis morally impossible we should be all of the same Opinion in Matters of Religion; that Education, and the Notions imbib'd in our Infancy, generally determine our future Conduct, and that few shake off the Prejudices of Education, the Religion of their Parents, or the Customs of their Country; that Reason commands us to judge favourably and charitably of all Men; and why not of the Jews, who are allied to us under a nearer Tye than Mahometans, or Heathens?

That to view them as Members of this Society, and Subjects to the King, they must be acknowledg'd as very useful Parts of the British Nation, who contribute to the Extension of its foreign and domestick Trade, who export our woollen Manufactures, which employs our Poor, keeps our Shipping in action, and brings a large Revenue to the Crown.

Says further, that they greatly support the Publick Credit, not only by their own Capitals, but by the vast Sums which their Jewish Correspondents constantly put into our publick Funds.

That 'tis notorious, that many of them having amass'd great Riches in foreign Parts, have retir'd hither to enjoy the Fruits of their Labour.

But observes, that were they the least apprehensive of a Persecution they would soon fly to a neighbouring Nation, who would gladly embrace them, and laugh at us for our profound Policy.

As to the Observation made in the Daily Post-boy, that the Hollanders keep them out of all publick Stocks at home, and hang them up, if they catch them in their Plantations abroad; this Writer says, 'tis absolutely false; and that the Stocks are there entail'd upon their Children as hereditary Estates, which they cannot dispofe of; and that they with impunity reside in several of their Plantations.

Concludes, that 'tis inconsistent with Christianity to hate the Jews, since they have no Antipathy to Christians, as appears by sending their Children to christian Schools, and encouraging them to converse with Christians.

Against Englishing Law Proceedings.

The Daily Courant, March 4.

COntains a Letter, the writer of which having read in the Votes Minutes of a Petition from a Grand-Jury in Yorkshire, concerning the altering the present Law-hand and that all Pleadings and Records should hereafter be in English, Asserts that it is not the Lawyers that have invented these Law-hands, to keep their Clients in ignorance, but the People themselves, who from time to time have varied their Hand-writing, by which they have gradually lost the knowledge of that Character and Form of Letters, which Deeds, Records, and all our ancient Manuscript-books were formerly wrote in.

That the Benefits of retaining this old Writing are many; for that by means thereof, Deeds of 5 or 700 Years standing are as legible as if now wrote, and the better they answer their primary intent, of being Vouchers for Rights and Titles.

That, to alter the Hand to that now used would be attended by these Inconveniencies, viz. It would become obsolete; and as the hands are continually varying. Writings of one Century would hardly be legible by another; and these Law-hands being disus'd, the knowledge of all Records and Deeds of Times past, would be lost, or known only among a few Antiquaries; as is the Case in Scotland.

Observes, that what has been said of Law-hands was applicable to the Language; that Certainty and Perspicuity are the things aimed at in all Records; therefore to continue them in an Orthography and Language invariable, is equally conducive to the same End; that the Roman Law was wrote in that Language, and that our original Writs were first framed in the Latin Tongue, as is done in most parts of Europe. See p. 106.

Remarks, that many technical Words, or Terms of Art. have been invented to legal Proceedings, which being settled, render certain the Intent of the Party that uses them; and as to Presentments, and Bills of Indictments, to vary from the establish'd Forms, would raise new Disputes, especially where Mens Lives are at stake.

Says, that in Oliver's Time an Attempt was made to render Law-Proceedings into English, but was attended with so many Inconveniencies, that at the Restauration the Latin Tongue was again restored.

Takes notice, that in Chancery, where the Proceedings are in English, they are arrived to an exceeding prolixity; whereas at Common-Law, an Ejectment for Trial of a Title, altho' the Estate be of 10,000 l. per Ann. shall scarce exceed 200 Words; a Rule in Court scarce four or five Lines; a Verdict and final Judgment, scarce an hundred Words. See p. 100, 120, 113.

Lastly observes, it mayn't be improper to prevent the Intricacy and Prolixity of some special Proceedings; but that to give a Defendant Liberty in all Cases to plead the General Issue, puts the Plaintiff to great Difficulties to prepare against such Defence as the Defendant may make.

Of Popularity.

The Free Briton, March 4, No. 66.

DEcribes the method of obtaining a laudable applause, which not to deserve, he says, is the characteristick of a bad man, and to desire it before earn'd, betrays a weak one.

A man whose intentions are honest and his heart good, will be the first to rejoyce in his own merit, tho' the last to publish it; will always endeavour to be fair in the publick opinion, but more solicitous to gain his own applause; to make popular applause the principle end of ambition, is unworthy of a good mind and proceeds from a bad judgment.

If men did but confider humane nature truly, they could not be fond of popular applause, which generally proceeds from the vilest herds of men; that the wise and worthy part of mankind are seldom heard in publick shouts, or seen in publick places; that they whose suffrages are most to be desir'd, are the least numerous, with whom no arts are requisite but open truth and plain good sense. Who would not be asham'd of popularity when a Turkish Sultan, a Grand Monarque, or a Spanish Inquisition, are adored by the people? when Cæser shall be more popular for enslaving his country, than Cato for defending it? when, even a King, such as William III, shall be hated and distress'd for having sav'd the British nation from slavery? when such a minister as Jobu de Wit shall be torn to pieces for adhering to popular liberties? and such a chancellor as the E. of Clarendon forced to fly his country?

Observes, that the majority of men cannot distinguish glittering tinsel from sterling worth, and are delighted with neither, but as it glares in their eyes; that such is the depravity of human nature, that men hate the best characters, meerly because they are so; and so surprizing is the itch of scandal, that the infirmities, slips, and errors of every man, whose merit or fortune hath raised him to notice, are narrowly watch'd.

Lastly, gives a caution that he would not be understood to inculcate such an indifference of popularity as to render popular affection of no value, to destroy all confidence in friends, or to place all enjoyment in a man's single life; but says, if the esteem of men may be honestly acquir'd it may be enjoy'd with honour; but if lost without just cause, sees no reason to regret it.

The Grubstreet Journal, March 4. No. 68.

MR. Bickerstaff continues his Dissertation upon Almanacks; explodes the absurdities of others, and justifies his own predictions, which have been exactly fulfill'd. Instances besides, that he had foretold the death of the late Laureate in the following lines to Mr. Duck printed in their 40th Journal.

O! may the Queen new favours grant,

 And make the Lawrel thine!

Then shall we see next New-Years Ode

 By far the last outshine.

¶ Mr. Bavius gives a Letter from Belinda, wherein he finds fault with their Hottentot Performance, and calls it such a nauseous Piece of Stupidity, that if they don't retrieve their Honour, she shall wish them the happy Bridegrooms at the Cape of Good Hope, and expresses her Indignation in the following Lines:

 Long have I thought your Club to be

A Batchelor Society,

A set of lively brilliant Wits:

But now 'tis plain, you're marry'd Cits:

Your Sprightly Joys seem past the full;

Just in the point of growing dull,

You have your selves so much beposs'd,

From off the Stage you'll soon be hiss'd,

Or may I ne'er by Man be kiss'd.

In answer to which Mr. B. alledges, that it was a faithful Quotation, and wonders it should give offence, not reflecting in the least on the fair Sex; and that it was so relish'd by the town, as to occasion an additional Number of the said Journals to be printed. See p. 62. No. 2.

¶ Among the rest of Mr. Quidnunc's witty Remarks, he observes upon an Article of two Women being burnt in the Hand, one for Manslaughter, and another for having two Husbands; that it is odd the same Punishment should be inflicted for killing one Man, as for kissing two.

London Journal, March 6. No. 605.

Expatiates upon the blessing of civil Liberty, which delivers us from the tyranny of other Men's passions, and makes us masters of our selves; that it consists in a security of property, and a right of examining into all subjects divine and human; that the least abridgment of this liberty is breaking in upon the laws of God and Nature, and setting up power against law; that such is our liberty, and our happiness, and to contend for it, is noble; but that to be eternally clamouring about liberty when we are in full possession, is romantick, base and unworthy, tends to make the people uneasie, and disposes them to desire a change.

As to the opinion of Timoleon, which the Craftsman had quoted from Mr. Bugdel, viz. That every man in a free state, ought to speak freely, and with impunity, whatever he thinks of another, Osborne will not allow, if inconsistent with the rights of others.

Says, 'tis not true, that there ought to be no punishment, but for blasphemy or treason; because there are many other cases both in private and publick life, wherein persons ought to be punish'd for writing, as in case of scandals against private persons, and libels against the Government.

Sums up all in saying, that there ought to be no restraint upon the press; that all men have a right to enquire into all opinions, and examine all subjects; to represent grievances; to shew what laws are pernicious or defective, or to lay before the publick all male-administration, agreeable to truth.

The Universal Spectator, Saturday March 6, No. 126.

OBserves, that a regulation of the LAW is a point of the greatest consequence to the publick, and has been long wish'd for. See p. 19. No. I.

That no law hath, or can have juster or better principles than the common law of England, [as it is dictated by reason, settled by wise men, aud confirm'd by custom; ] that the statute law is generally declarative of the common, when circumstances happen to render the latter disputable.

Of the common and statute is composed the law of the land, which might properly be call'd the Civil law of England; that the Romans understood no more by their jus civile, than that law by which every free people govern'd themselves; and that laws have their foundation in the law of nature.

Asserts, that the basis of our laws lay in the institutions of the native Britains, intermix'd from time to time with the customs of the Saxons, Danes, and Normans, as they became mingled with us, and the legal constitution always accommodated to the temper, manners, and situation of the people: That the customs then in vogue are but few and well known; but as this posture of things chang'd, new forms of practice were introduc'd, till at last precipitated into that miserable state of intricacy, expence and confusion, in which they are at present. See p. 98. 100, 213.

Enquires into the origin of the evils.

The first of these he reckons, is, the power of construction allow'd, or assum'd by the dispenfers of the laws.

Another cause which he assigns is the allowing so many deputies in juridical affairs.

A third, the modern practice of perquisite-taking, which he says, may be stiled a skreen from bribery.

Next to this he adds the confederacies enter'd into by the different degrees of under-officers for the mutual carrying on of these practices.

Then gives a detail of grievances arising from the present practice of the law, that pleadings are carried on in a tongue unknown to themselves, and unintelligible to the vulgar and the learned. See p. 106.

That a strange, uncouth character is used, having as little affinity to the Latin letters, as to Arabick.

Quotes a faying of an eminent Council, who declar'd he had read a story of a Man who was try'd for stealing a Cow, but was acquitted, it not being set forth in the Indictment, whether the field from whence he stole her, was an oblong or a square.

Concludes, that the extensive length of law Proceedings is another flagrant grievance, considering the many copies that must necessarily be made.

Fog's Journal, Saturday, March 6. No. 128.

THE first describes the Character of an inconstant Man, and asserts, that there always will be a set of different Principles, by which different Men will produce different Actions; the natural result of which is a spirit of Opposition. As, therefore, Men's actions be distinguish'd by the characters of good and bad, so are parties known by the Title of Tory and Whigg.

From these Maxims he proceeds to draw the ridiculous vice of Inconstancy.

Says, That whether with regard to religious Matters or Party, 'tis of all Failings the most contemptible, the most unpardonable.

Observes, 'Tis dangerous to trust those who take any Impression, and may be moulded into any Shape, and who, as occasion offers, are equally subservient to all Sides.

That Inconstancy, even in private Friendship, has been severely satyriz'd; much greater is his Guilt, who having insinuated himself into the Secrets of a whole Community, yet can for the sake of interest turn tail, and avow those Principles which are the Condition of his Reward.

Another inconvenience attending this Vice, he says, is the Loss of all credit with the World, which is the most miserable State a Man can be reduc'd to, who, metaphorically, may be said to be bury'd alive, a punishment which Tory-whigg treachery, he says, well deserves.

¶ The second letter is an Observation which the Author made from a French Astrologer, that the World was near at an End. Man, saith he, is a little World, and the World a great Man, and is subject to various Distempers, hath it's infancy, childhood, youth, middle-age, old-age and dotage; that from Adam to Noah was the World's infancy, from Noah to Abraham, his childhood, from Abraham to David his youth, from David to the captivity of Babylon, his middle-age, from thence unto Christ, his old age, from Christ to the Treaty of Seville, his dotage, and goes now, as it were, upon Crutches, and has an ugly hoskey Cough, and is Milt-grown.

¶ The third letter is from a female Correspondent, and recommends to his reading a pamphlet speedily to be publish'd, entitled, A particular account of the Proceedings, in relation to the arrest, examination, commitment, bail, and discharge, of Mr. Pless and his Wife, interspers'd with Observations, shewing, in the author's opinion, that some late Proceedings of Messengers and others, are unwarrantable by Law, and inconsistent with the liberty of the subject.

Concludes, with recommending Mr. Pless to the regard of the Publick, he being about to set up a Tavern or a Coffee-house in this City. See p. 103.

The Craftsman, Saturday March 6. No. 244.

REconsiders three Pamphlets lately publish'd. In the first, entitled, A Defence of the Measures of the present Administration, &c. he takes Notice of a Paragraph which he calls an Eulogium to the present Ministry, but declares himself at a Loss to comprehend the Meaning of all the Compliments which the Author bestows upon them; but says, the Meaning is explain'd in the two other Writers: The first of which is a Letter of Caleb D'anvers, Esq; upon his proper Reply, wherein the Writer asks, That supposing Mr. D'anvers had a Parliament to his wish, what glorious Counsels might we expect from an Assembly of Fox-hunters? This Reflection, he says, is neither seasonable nor judicious; cannot apprehend, but a Fox-hunting Parliament, and a Fox-hunting Administration would very well agree; and adds, That it is a plain Insinuation that country Gentlemen of landed Estates, ought not to sit in the House of Commons, which was originally constituted of such Persons.

Examines another Query in the same Author, viz. What could we expect less than to see our Courtiers and soldiers turn'd out of the Army, as well as out of Parliament?

From this Paragraph the Craftsman infers, that the Author would convince us of the Necessity of a Standing Army, which he supposes would not be continued by a Parliament of country Gentlemen; and that a Militia within Doors would produce a Militia without.

The last Pamphlet he takes Notice of, is that entitled, Some Observations on the present State of Affairs, &c. in which, speaking of the Hessian Troops, the Author remarks, That this foreign Army gives great uneasiness, as well as our standing Forces at home; that free Governments have degenerated into absolute Monarchy, the Cause of which has generally been an Army; that our Country is in a declining State, and must expect the Fate of other Governments; and that we cannot disperse the Storm, but may avert it for a Time by a standing Force.

The Craftsman in his Remarks upon this Paragraph observes, That the Author allows that Standing Armies are dangerous to a Constitution, and yet pleads for them: that the Administration of Affairs is grown impracticable without Corruption; and leaves it to the Consideration of Mr. Osborne himself, whether such infamous Doctrines as these do not make it necessary to plead the Cause of the British Constitution. (See Osborne's Answer p. 108.)

In this Paper is also a Letter from an old Officer in the Army, sign'd Tilbury, who expresses his Satisfaction to see in the Votes an Instruction to the Committee for the Mutiny Bill to receive a Clause for Limiting the Time Soldiers are to serve in the Army.

This, he says, is a very commendable Regard to poor Wretches, who have been deluded thro' Liquor, or forc'd by misfortunes into the Service. That such a Limitation on other Accounts is very Reasonable; 1. As it is the Practice of all other Countries, and was so in the late war. 2. Felons are only transported for a certain Time. 3. If an Army is ty'd to slavery during life, what concern can they have for the publick Liberty? 4. That it wou'd prevent deserting, and save Officers the Expence of recruiting, on that Account. 5. It would be more agreeable to the Soldiery, and beneficial to the Government, by procuring a willing instead of a forced Service. 6. Many would take a turn for a Time, who would not be chain'd down for life, and so all our able Men would be disciplined, against any Emergency; wherefore he hopes it will pass into a Law. See 114 & 208.

The Register, Sat. March 6. No. 47.

Contains a Piece translated from the Arabick, address'd to the the Santon Muley Abdallah, an Admirer of Wisdom, and Friend of Solitude, whose retreating from the Conversation of mortals our Author commends, then launches out in his Description of the Blessings of Retirement.

Congratulates him on his Retreat into the Desart, which his Vertue makes a Paradise: That none but Souls the most finish'd by the Almighty, are equal to such a Life.

Longs for the Conversation of Mussulmen, and is weary of the Society of Christians, who, he says, are full as uneasy as himself; that to kill Time is a common Phrase, and Murders of this kind are frequent among 'em.

The Daily Courant, March 8.

SEveral printed papers having been published and disperfed under the title of Novelles Ecclesiastiques; it takes notice that their arrets condemn every thing not printed by authority and all anonymous writings whatsoever.

Observes, that if regard be had to the first Principles of publick order, there is no policy, tho' ever so irregular, that can bear with a person unknown thus voluntarily to set himself up for a disperser of news, and an arbitrator of facts, without any other warrant than the obscurity, which shelters him; anticipating the opinion of the publick; and passing sentence and censures upon other Peoples conduct and reputation.

Shews the bad use is made of this liberty; which has been discover'd in facts, in those papers, taken upon trust, calumnious imputations, barbarous suspicions, which ought no where to be publish'd without proof, much less without a name; a freedom of style and strokes of satyr, often directly contrary to the respect due to the the secular and ecclesiastical powers.

That in despite of authority that Journal is carry'd on more boldly than ever, supported, say the authors, by the hand of God; thus vainly covering themselves under the pretence of religion, which never pointed to such methods.

That for these reasons 'twas thought but necessary to condemn, proscribe and suppress it by all the effectual means they could think of.

The Hyp Doctor, March 9. No. 13.

COnsiders the depredations made by the Spaniards on our shipping in the West Indies, which he says merrily, ought to be chalk'd up to the score of the present ministry for the following reasons, viz. 1. Some of those depredations were none at all. 2. Many of them are dated before the time of the present ministry, others while Spain was at variance with us. 3. Those made by Pyrates, as much as those suppos'd to be done by Guarda Costa's, are alike charg'd to the present ministry, and by the same reason all depredations by land might be charg'd on the administration. 4. Depredations by guttling and tippling, junketting, gossiping, gaming, &c. are to be all item'd to the government.

Goes on in a strain of banter and ridicule to charge all the petty, trifling losses, sustain'd in private Life, to the account of the present ministry.

Having finish'd his burlesque, he adds a chronicle of blunders in Fog and D'anvers on saturday last. 1. Fog begins with a Letter on the description of an inconstant Man, a Tory-Whig, a Weathercock; and yet has the inconstancy to end with another for Mr. Du Pless, who certainly was a Whig, when in the King's service, and did not Fog now think him a Tory for being out of it, he would hardly have recommended him in his Paper. (See extracts of three letters in Fog p. 101.) 2. Fog's condemning inconstancy to party is a libel on Mr. P-t-y and my L-B-ke, as well as on all Jacobites who have taken the oaths since the revolution: by which he makes his Tories Weathercocks. 3 The Craftsman hopes the publick will be a just indignation against those scandalous, venal writers, for the sake of a single man: by which he must mean himself and fellow-labourers, who write for Mr. P-y, to turn a penny, and over-turn all for two pence. 4. Caleb in these words, if meant of others, denies that liberty of the press to those writers, which himself asserts. 5. Caleb calls the publishers Peele and Roberts, midwives; by the same rule his publisher is one, and H- B- and W- P- are wet nurses.

(See more of this Writer, p. 66.)

The Grub street Journal, March 11.

No. 62.

A Letter from a correspondent treating of Impudence says, tho' it be always unaccompany'd with true desert, yet among the injudicious and unthinking, its taken for it; that it does a man's business, in the way of fortune and preferment, much better than all the virtues put together. Who then, says he, would be troubled with that pitiful, sneaking vice Modestly, and its foolish companion Merit, who has any thing to get or lose?

Observes, that Impudence is a main support to the Members of the Grubean Society, by virtue of which every whisler, as soon as he comes from school, sets out with Criticism; begins where he should end; and abuses the greatest men, not suspecting himself to be the least and most inconsiderable: that a certain air of pertness passes with these youngsters for wit; and a smattering in the dog-language of poetical controversies for arrant criticism; that by virtue of this quality their members quote authors they never saw: translate books they can't read; and write Grammars of languages they don't understand; then breaks out, O Henly! thou eldest son of Effrontery! renowned for thy Grammars, no less than for thy Oratory! how shall thy fame be transmitted to after-ages as it deserves? See p. 109.

Erect thyself, thou monumental Brass.

But notwithstanding our author is such an admirer of Impudence, yet says, it is carry'd a little too far in this our blessed age and nation; that our political writers, of either side, ought not to affirm, without a severe animadversion, what all the world knows to be false; because it is an insult upon common sense: among other things for instance, says it had been asserted that a certain Weekly Paper (it might be suppos'd he mean't the Grub-street) is universally condemned, does not sell, and is despis'd by every body; whereas the contrary is most true and undeniable; and the reporters of these falsehoods, who rail and tremble at it, are universally despis'd.

Lastly, that these exorbitances corrected, let Impudence and Worthlessness triumph as they ought to do, and the wretches of Modesty and Merit sneak and starve, according to the laudable modern custom.

Universal Spect. Mar. 13. No. 127.

Partiality in Parents to their Children.

DEclares his indignation at the partiality of those parents, who, without regard to merit or justice, prefer one of their children to be a favourite, to the prejudice and discouragement of all the rest. Says, every child has an equal right, unless forfeited by misbehaviour, to the care of it's parents; that altho' the law of most nations favours the eldest son, yet ought there to be no difference in point of paternal tenderness and affection; constantly to fondle and humour one, and unreasonably to browbeat or neglect the rest, is unjust and highly blameable.

He was led into these reflections by a visit to his friend Mr. Gentle, whose eldest daughter, Miss Kitty, now 17 Years of age, has govern'd his family nigh 15 years; that when she was two Years old, people saying it was a pretty child, she became her mother's darling, and continues so, while two fine boys and a lovely girl, scarce know they have a mother, but by her chidings. Describes Mr. Gentle to be a good-natur'd honest man, who for peace sake, acquiesces in this partiality, and submits to his daughter's government; that the first token of her mother's simple fondness was her general order that the child should not be suffer'd to cry for any thing: upon which Miss Kitty soon became the most peevish, passionate, humoursome, little vixen that ever was. Being thus indulg'd in all her humours, no wonder she is at present haughty, imperious and assuming; her temper fretful and impatient; and that good sense nature intended her, over-run with price and vanity; that she might be reckon'd handsome was it not for her insolence, and affectation, which makes her disliked; while her sister Lucy is sure to win the hearts of all that see her by the meekness, modesty, innocence, and pretty manner of her deportment.

Next, gives an account of what past at the tea-table, and of Kitty's rude behaviour to her sister and mother; and then relates particulars of a quarrel she had with one of her brothers, who hap-to tread on the tail of her lap-dog, which occasion'd a confusion in the whole family; that the mother and children retiring, Mr. Gentle begged pardon for what had happen'd, own'd his misfortune; that this headstrong girl was his continual torment; that her mother's fondness and his imprudent compliance, had made her temper insolent and intolerable, but thinks she is more the object of compassion than severe usage. Concludes with this saying, We have by fondness been the ruin of our child! For, with this disposition, what can I foresee but misery for her, and sorrow for ourselves?

Fog's Journal, March 13. No. 129.

Of Popular Discontents.

BEgins with a quotation from a certain political writer, to this effect, viz. that whenever the executive part of the government does not act for the publick good, the legislature and every member of the commonwealth thinks it lawful to intermeddle; because the ends of government being the ease, plenty and protection of the subject, if those purposes are not answered, he begins to think himself absolved from that contract, and that he is returned to the full liberty of his progenitors, and may act for himself; from whence it proceeds, that under a corrupt administration, all degrees of men, are Statesmen, are inquisitive, uneasy, censorious, and disaffected.

From hence Fog takes occasion to observe, that this doctrine is never relish'd under a bad administration, the instruments of which will say, That private men have no right to examine into the conduct of their superiors Truth they will call sedition, and bring examples to shew, that men have been put to death for telling disagreeable truth.

That 'tis our peculiar happiness, that things can never be brought to this extremity, unless the representatives bof the people shou'd be debauch'd into submissions or measures inconsistent with liberty.

Dissents from that common assertion, that nothing can go amiss so long as a good understanding continues betwixt the legislative and executive parts of the constitution; because when affairs are in bad hands such an agreement is dangerous; that this nation has often been saved by the opposition made to men in power; and the representatives of the people, by keeping the publick money in the people's pocket, have ty'd up the hands of the ministers from executing many mischievous projects.

Gives several instances to illustrate this argument; and that all good laws have been pass'd at such a Crisis; witness the Habeas Corpus act, and the bill for making parliaments triennial.

Says that this jealousy or distrust of men in power so long preserv'd the liberties of the Roman people; but when that was remov'd, and the senates could be influenced, their liberties were lost.

Lastly, that when all virtue and publick spirit was departed from the senate, and that great Empire was sinking into ruin, there was a good harmony and understanding betwixt the executive and legislative parts of the government.

The Craftsman, Saturday March 13. No. 245.

COntinuing his REMARKS on the reign of King James I. proceeds to show the advantageous situation Queen Elizabeth left him in, which had he made a proper use of, says, he might have reigned gloriously abroad, and happily at home; that his title was not contested, nor any opposition open or secret, given to his succession; and the people unanimous in their vote for him, as being the only prince in whom the protestant interest united; That he, coming to the crown, after all the difficulties and dangers of the Reformation and establishing a new church were over, had an opportunity of preventing any bad consequence from the division of his protestant subjects.

Says, the the Roman catholick party carried on their designs against the constitution in church and state, with as much rage as ever, tho' not so strongly, their great supporters being dead, the reformation establish'd, and the church of England, by the sobriety, wisdom, and sanctity of her institution, fixed on a rock; King James therefore had it in his power to keep down with ease a party which Q. Elizabeth had subdued with pain.

Proceeds to mention other advantages attending King James I. as that with respect to the navy, commerce and wealth of the nation, he was a rich and powerful King. Nethertheless his ministers took occasion to demand money of the commons, among others upon the following pretences: 1. To satisfy a Debt of Queen Elizabeth for 350,0000. And 2. To reimburse the King the charge of protecting his Wife and Children from being robb'd on the road to London.

That the advantages which this Prince had in the situation of foreign affairs, both at his accession to the throne, and during the greatest part of his reign, were remarkably great, proceeding from the weakness or minority of the Kingds of Spain, and other favourable circumstances with regard to other princes and states about him.

And lastly, That only one instance can be brought that might justly be reckon'd an exception to the advantage, and security which accompanied the reign of this prince; and that related to the part he took or might have taken in the troubles which happen'd in Germany from the designs of the House of Austria, by which Frederick Elector of Palatine, lost the crown of Bohemia, and his own patrimony; and the protestant interest and the liberty of Germany were well nigh sacrificed to the bigotry and ambition of the Emperor.

The Weekly Register, Sat. March 13. No. 48.

A Petition having been presented to the Parliament to English the LAWS, the Register gives his thoughts on that subject. [See p. 98, 100.

Observes that the laws ought to be clear and concise, so as to be readily comprehended; that the Sages of antiquity gave the people under their direction, the most plain and intelligible view of their duty imaginable.

That whereas 'tis objected, That custom has entail'd on us a quite contrary practice which is not in the power of reason to remedy; that every nation has its particular laws; and what regulated a little Greek commonwealth will not square with so great and populous a nation as ours.

To this is answers, That truth is always the same, and regularity no more foreign to a large community than a small; that the direction of affairs has falled into unskilfull hands, which have endeavour'd to hide what they could not rectify; and hence obscurity and Gothick barbarism took place of elegance and perspicuity.

Examines the language in which our Courts practise the Law. He allows that the Laws may contain the whole Duty of the subject, may be contriv'd in the most masterly way, and explain'd in the most regular method; but then, says he, how shall I understand them? If a Man has no learning, how shall he read them in a language he don't know, and in a character he is not acquainted with? Says, 'tis necessary that every Man engag'd in a Law suit, should himself have a view of the whole Proceedings, that he may judge of his Attorney's honesty and capacity; but that this is impossible, till he is previously acquainted with the statutes in his favour, and the practice of the court.

That the objection that the Latin is the only proper language, because its meanings are established, and its sounds unvariable, is of no weight, and would have held good against the Romans themselves, as well as us, because it was then as liable to alterations as ours is now, yet they had no recourse to the Greek to prevent that Mischief, or mistrufted the obscurity or corruption of their laws, from the revolution of their language.

Concludes, that the English Tongue is as capable of answering all the purposes of Expression as the Latin and in its present purity, will last as long; that it will express Truth and Justice, with abundance of spirit and sublimity; and when our Laws are wrote equal to the language, there will be no danger of mistaking their intention.

The London Journal, Sat. March 13. No. 606.

CORRUPTION, he says, has been complained of in all ages, but the greatest complainers have been the first and greatest corruptors, who having corrupted men to serve the ends of their tyrannies, have made that corruption a reason for continuing those tyrannies.

Denies that this age or this nation is more corrupt than other ages, or than this kingdom was heretofore.

Says, that the only probable way which has been thought of to prevent corruption is an Oath, by which men appeal to heaven for the truth of what they say, and the punishments of another world, and the penalties of this are laid before them, if they speak false: But this is not sufficient, for an Oath, where a man's interest is concern'd, and his passions strong, puts him upon distinctions to evade the force of truth; by which means the fear of a Deity and invisible punishments, is render'd less efficacious.

Thinks it would have been for the interest of mankind, if there never had been an Oath imposed, relating solely to man's self and his own interest; for that an honest man will not be corrupted, and such who will, find out ways to reconcile their wickedness and their consciences.

Says, the causes of corruption are false teaching and false philosophy, or wrong notions of life and pleasure; and that 'tis no wonder men act dishonestly, when they place their chief good in gratifying every passion just as it rises, without regard to consequences.

Advises an education in principles of wisdom and virtue, that religion is only an enforcement of morality, and that a man's present happiness consisted in the practice of it; and if to this were added the necessity of temperance, in order to preserve honesty, we should be more strongly guarded against corruption, than by all the Oaths which were ever invented; that the only way to preserve our integrity, and be just to the community, is to be just to ourselves, by living within the rules of reason.

Concludes with taking notice of an appeal made to him by Mr D'anvers concerning the Truth of his Remarks on a Passage in a Pamphlet called, Observations on the present State of Affairs, in which the Author had given a dismal description of the present declining, corrupted and depraved State of this nation, (see p. 102.) to which the Craftsman could not agree, neither does Mr. Osbourne, but says, that the People of England are sober and honest, wise and brave, jealous of incroachments on their liberties, which they have warmly at heart, and will gloriously contend for whenever invaded; and that the constitution was never in a more vigorous state of health, nor the laws more inviolably or sacredly observ'd.

Daily Courant, March 11.

THE REPUBLICAN PRINCIPLES which the Craftsman has lately vented among us, and the actions as well as speech's of some men which have the same tendency, make it highly necessary to remind unwary people of the dangerous consequences which have formerly attended the same doctrines and practices. In the reign of Charles the first, the spirit of opposition to the exercise of any power in the crown, which favour'd in the least of arbitrary, was carried to such a pitch, that even the shadow of authority was taken away from it. And what ensued? Why the people found themselves inslaved in a much more oppressive and intolerable manner, by the very men who had set up that opposition, and whom they all along took to be their own instruments and agents for procuring them liberty. This was then, and always must be, the case in England. A monarchy, a limited monarchy, is our natural constitution; and we ought to preserve it. The royal prerogative has been pretty well curtail'd, and needs no more amputation; to be eternally nibbling at the power of the crown, what is it but to set a Prince of spirit upon contriving means to overturn all our liberties, in order to preserve his own? but if a Prince's hands are quite bound down for fear of such an accident, then it must happen as before, that we become the slaves of those who will impudently call themselves our Preservers; and who, to secure their ill-gotten power, will certainly be too wise to use the same methods by which the other lost it.

As a confirmation of these arguments introduces a speech printed in 1648. which shews us that those men who grudg'd their Prince a few necessary soldiers to support his dignity, soon found themselves under the tyranny of a numerous army of their own raising; that those men who grudg'd a few taxes, necessary for the support of the government, were soon saddled with seven times as much, and possessed of as little liberty either in their civil or religious concerns.

The Grub-street Journal, March 18. No. 63.

1. ENtertains his readers with a 4th letter from a poem called HUDIBRAS; shewing from the variety and justness of its characters, that it has all the essentials of a poem of the epic kind.

2. Contains some arguments advanced for and against the CHARITABLE CORPORATION, whose case is now before the Parliament. The opposers of the Corporation assert, that a borrower of 150 l. loses near 40 l. in 3 months. On the other side 'tis affirm'd that the borrower for his 150 l. pledg'd saves near 40 l. besides preserving his credit, tho' he pays the Company ten per Ct. for what he borrows. So the Lender is sure to gain; and the Borrower's Profit is a disputed Point.

3. Among the Occurrences Mr. Quidnunc quotes one from the Daily Post, viz. "We hear that the Oratory subject for to morrow evening, will be Henley's Apology for Wit, and will be advertised particularly to morrow morning; and that Mr. Henley expects there one Dr. M———, who called him impudent in print, to a dispute on that problem." On which he remarks, I wonder Mr. Henley should make an unnecessary apology; and that he should be offended at being called imprudent, since it was plainly shewed in our last, that impudence comprehends all qualifications. Who Dr. M——— is, whom he expects to a dispute, I can better imagine, than I can what is meant by that Problem; nothing preceding to which it can be referred. If the problem intended be either, whether Mr. Henly, has wit, or whether he has impudence, I deny, that either is a problem, and consequently any matter of dispute.

4. From their Pegasus in Grub-street, gives the following paragraphs. We have been assured from Sevenoaks in Kent, that Dr. Thomas Fuller, an eminent physician, (murdered by the L. Ev. of Feb. 11. an account of which murder was given in our 59th Journal) is since come to life again; and that the suit commenced by him, against the trustees of the charity left by Sir William Sennoke, was rather in order to obtain an annual election, than on the account of mismanagements: which affair was determined by the master of the Rolls, who decreed that the trustees should be chosen annually; and that the costs of both parties should be paid out of the charity itself.

The society was surprized at the advertisement in the Daily Post, March 14. from one who calls himself Hyp Doctor, assuring the world that we had recommended his Weekly Paper, in the epigram upon wit in our last Journal. Tho' he may bid very fair to be admitted one day into our society, yet at present his Paper is not eminent enough, even to be read before it, We know but one Hyp Doctor, the learned Orator, whom we acknowledge to be such in several senses of that appellation. His works are always read to us; and his advertisement of this day gave us extraordinary diversion, particularly his epigram on Dr. Scurvy-Grass,

Go on, great Doctor, both to kill and write,

And give us Papers, while you make us—

Mr. Mevius objected, that the last line did not turn fully upon the first, that the word kill had no business there, since after Persons are killed, they can have no occasion for Paper: and proposed to change it for purge, which he said would make the epigram exact. This was approved.———But Dr. Mitchel, a rival of Mr. Henley's, and author of a learned dissertation against sooterkins, declared, that he liked neither the one, nor the other. That tho' he had never called the Orator impudent in print, yet since in the Daily Post of yesterday, and in an Advertisement in the Daily Post of this day, he was plainly challenged by the appellations of Dr. M——— and Dr. Scurvy-Grass, to a disputation on the point aforesaid, he was ready to answer the challenge, and to dispute on that problem, at the Pegasus, tho' not at the Oratory. In the mean time, in answer to the Orator's distich, he desired the following might be published:

Preach on, great Orator, but printing dread:

Thy jargon spoke seems sense; 'tis nonsense read.

The free Briton, March 11. No. 67.

COnsists of a letter from Timothy Scrub of Rag-fair, ironically applauding the talents and conduct of E— B—l, Esq; Author of a Letter to the King of Sparta, from which he infers that this Gentleman is inspir'd, he will not say, mad; that to prove this needs no other argument than his method of proving himself no Irishman, by giving his modesty in evidence; and his opinion that the late L— B—ke is the fittest man alive to serve the King and Kingdom; and that he is incapable of betraying either, after so many instances of treachery to both; and that it is a hardship upon him, still to continue under an attainder of high Treason, so deservedly incurred, by his flight from the justice of his injur'd country.

The Free Briton, March 18. No. 68.

Of Sedition.

SAys, 'tis the duty and Glory of a free spirit to vindicate the measures of just and faithful governours; that the errors, crimes and incapacity of any governor are never long secret; that vain-glorious men, who have the Spirit of Domination, are never satisfy'd without engrossing power, and rejoice in any misfortune that befalls the publick, and labour to make the multitude more easy under it; and that their vanity is often the strongest motive to all the uproars they raise; that they who have no injury to complain of, will, unprovok'd, do mischief only to be thought important; which he illustrates with an instance out of Tacitus, viz. "Sedition and discontent, having almost worked up the Roman legions to mutiny, a private centinel mounted on the shoulders of his fellow-soldiers resolved to try the power of his eloquence, and address'd himself to the army in all the Postures of an Orator. You have given Liberty to these miserable men, said he pointing to those criminals whom they had rescued; but which of you can restore life to my brother? he was murdered no longer ago than last night, by the Hands of those Ruffians who are entertain'd by the general, to butcher the poor soldiery. Tell me Blesus, (for that was the general's name who was then sitting on the tribunal) tell me where thou hast laid his dead body? An enemy does grudge the rites of burial; when I have tir'd myself with kissing his cold Corpse, and weeping over it, order me to be slain upon it. All I ask of my fellow soldiers, since we both die in their cause, is, that they would lay me in the same grave with my brother. The army blown up into rage by this Speech, resolv'd to do the speaker justice; but on enquiry they found, that he never had a brother in his life.———As groundless, adds he, are most of the complaints of these days.

Weekly Register, March 20. No. 49.

Of Coffee Grounds.

RElates some occurences he met with in a visit he lately paid a lady; says, he surpriz'd her and her company in close cabal over their coffee; the rest very intent upon one, who by her dress and intelligence, he guess'd was a tire-woman; to which she added the secret of divining by coffee grounds; that she was then in full inspiration, and with much solemnity observing the atoms round the cup; on one hand sat a widow, on the other a maiden lady, both attentive to the predictions to be given of their future fate; and that the lady (his acquaintance) tho' marry'd, was no less earnest in contemplating her cup than the other two. They assured him that every cast of the cup is a picture of all one's life to come; and every transaction and circumstance is delineated with the exactest certainty. If this be so (reply'd he) such an Art would be of service to a statesman; for instead of going to council he need only examine the coffee-grounds, and all the affairs of the whole nation would appear before Him at once, and he wou'd know all the plots, cabals and intriegues of his adversaries; but objected to the scheme, that in case he should see mischief and misfortune coming upon him, whether it would be in his power to prevent 'em; they reply'd, no. From which he takes occasion to dissuade them from such unwarrantable enquiries; to be content with what they enjoy; and be prepar'd to endure evil when it comes and to depend on providence for the rest.

The Register, in another part of his paper, represents the inconvenience that attend those who are oblig'd to make application to men in great offices; to whom there is no admittance without Feeing the servants.

Fog's Journal, Saturday, March 20. No. 133.

HAving extracted some Passages from the Tryal of the late E. of Oxford, in justification of that Nobleman from the Charge of several Crimes with which he was accused, and of which, our Journalist says, nothing could be prov'd against him, proceeds to give an Account of the Earl's Politicks in the Words of Mr. Budgel, in his Letter to Cleomenes King of Sparta, who says, it was not impossible for the Earl to make a better Peace than he did, yet that the Demolition of Dunkirk, and the Acquisition of Gibralter, must be allow'd to be of infinite Advantage to Great Britain.

Says, that upon the Treaty of Utrecht my Ld Oxford declar'd he did not rely upon K. Philip's Renunciation of the Crown of France, but rather on Accidents which might arise to disunite those two Powers, which accordingly happen'd; the Infanta of Spain, tho' formally contracted to the French King, and long entertain'd at Court, was sent back to her own Country to get a new Husband; which the Queen of Spain her Mother highly resented, and waited an Opportunity to revenge the Affront and would gladly have flung herself into our Arms, and offer'd us the Mediation betwixt her and France.

Mr. Bugdel proceeds to observe, that neither our Reputation, nor Affairs were left in a despicable Condition, after the Peace made by the said Earl, who form'd and establish'd the S. Sea Company, which in its Foundation, was a national Benefit, and might have serv'd noble Ends; that tho' the said Earl had past thro' so many great Offices, he at last died poor.

Concludes with another Quotation from the same Author, viz. that another Peer in the same Ministry, having invited Mr. Addison to Dinner, Mr. Addison said, He was heartily sorry his Principles forced him to oppose one of the greatest and most accomplish'd Men he had ever seen, and in whose Conversation he could have thought himself so truly happy.

The London Journal, Sat. March 20. No. 608.

MAkes an Observation, that scarce any of the Opinions which Men entertain, whether Religious, Political, or Personal, were ever examin'd; because they are generally the Effects of Education, or Inclination, rarely of Reason.

Says, the Mass of Mankind seems made for believing; whatever they like, they never enquire into; but if the Report happens to be levell'd against their Passions, or Inclinations, they enquire indeed, but Reason will convince them of what they are not willing to have true.

Remarks further, that Men not only easily believe, but are apt to believe ill of others, especially of those in Power, and as backward to believe good Reports.

Takes notice, that this is the case in common Life; but that 'tis much worse when the ill Report is against great Men; that Resentments, Disappointments, party Opinions, and Prejudices, induce 'em to say the worst Things of the best Men.

That the same humour has prevail'd in former Reigns; and that we find almost as many Complaints of Grievances in the Reigns of K. William, as in that of K. Ch. I. altho' 'tis acknowleg'd, we then felt but few. As a Proof, refers to a Paper publish'd 1693, call'd, A short State of our Condition.

Asks whether there were not as many Grievances talk'd of during the first ten glorious Years of Q. Anne, when a Treasurer was at the Head of Affairs, who, when he resign'd his Office, Went out with clean Hands, and empty too!

Queries, if the Ministry-haters of those Times did not represent our Victories as so many Steps to our Ruin; infamously charging the best General in the world with private views of his own Glory?

Bids us judge by what we know, not by what we read, and confider the characters and motives of the persons who complain; that when we are told our Constitution is in danger, our Liberties precarious, and our Properties insecure; we should take a view of our Happiness arising from our Liberty, which is secur'd by Guardian-Laws, and those Laws superior to the Will and Appetite of every Subject, and to which the Kings of England are themselves subject.

The Craftsman, Saturday March 20. No. 245.

COntinues Remarks on the Reign of K. James I. and says, this Prince, contrary to the measures and conduct of his Predecessor, endeavour'd, without Talents, to procure the People's Esteem, and so awaken'd their Jealoufy, instilling in their minds a good opinion of himself, and a mean one of them. Observes, that Q. Elizabeth had been jealous of her Prerogative, but moderate in the exercise of it; but that K. James imagin'd the higher he carried it, the more strongly he should be settled on the Throne.

That by the absurd notions principles of his government, opposition, prejudice, divisions and disputes were rais'd and fomented, and K. James, by using tricks of Government, conjur'd up a storm in which his successor perish'd; that his successor came a Party-man to the Throne, and his prejudices caused him to continue an invasion on the people's Rights, whilst he imagin'd himself only concern'd in the defence of his own.

Illustrates these assertions by facts. Says, that he was receiv'd with transports of joy, and that all ranks of men made their court to him; but that he, believing these transports of the people were due to his eminent merit, and an homage paid for the honour he did them in accepting their Crown, took state, and disperfed them with frowns, not to say with curses; yet that he sunk into low familiarity with his favorites; that he was profuse of his riches, and so lavish of his honour, that they ceas'd to be so; insomuch that an Advertisement was pasted at St. Paul's, of An Art to help weak Memories to a competent knowledge of the names of the Nobility.

Observes, that K. James's affectation of learning lessen'd him as a King; for that the merit of a chief Governor is wisely to superintend the whole, and not to shine in any inferior Class.

Remarks, that the state and pompous Titles he was fond of, serv'd to render his pusillanimity more conspicuous and his person more contemptible; as appear'd by his revoking, as soon as he came to the Throne, those letters of reprisal on the subjects of Spain, which Q. Elizabeth had granted her subjects, that they might do themselves justice.

The last instance he gives of King James's cowardly behaviour, is, his not resenting the affront offer'd to our Flag by a Dutch man of war.

The Daily Courant, March 18.

Of Soldiers.

GIves a burlesque on the letter inserted in the Craftsman, No. 224. signed Tilbury, addressed to the common soldiers; in which he promises to endeavour their freedom, and they shall be oblig'd to serve in the army for a short and limited time only; at the expiration of which he doubts not but they will all quit the service, of which he is persuaded they do not approve. See p. 102.

Tells them, it will save their officer the expence of recruiting, since, in this case, they may tell their officers at any time they will continue no longer in the service.

Says, 'twill be a great benefit to themselves, and save the lives of many British subjects, since few wou'd desert when they might publickly upon a march, throw down their arms and refuse any longer service.

That such a rotation in the army, would discipline our men, and turn the nation into a regular militia; which would give this great security to the present establishment; that an army, much more numerous, and as regular and well disciplin'd, might be the seduc'd and drawn together to subvert it, as that kept in pay to support and defend it.

Confesses that he had formerly treated them as a lazy, profligate indolent tribe, enemies of liberty, and the support of tyrants and usurpers; but having consider'd how they may be made useful, now commences patron for standing armies, that is, a free standing army, who can disband themselves whenever they please, without any bad consequences to themselves.

* * *

The Free Briton, Thursday, March 25. No. 69.

'TIS an act of generosity to rescue the virtues and the praises of such worthies who have surviv'd the services they have done the publick, from oblivion; few are now remaining who had any share in the publick transactions of the reigns of K. William and Qu. Anne; oppressors, betrayers, of the publick trust, and blundering servants, become gradually less and less obnoxious to the people.

Hence it happens, that many unjust proceedings, transmitted to posterity in the fair forms of publick justice unattended with their genuine marks of secret iniquity, have an ill-deserv'd reverence from those men who never examin'd their merit. Had such a venal magistrate as Chief Justice Saunders, or such an over-bearing tyrant as Scroggs who follow'd him, been living in the four last years of Queen Ann's reign, neither the city of London's charter, which the one seized on, nor the innocent blood which the other shed, wou'd have been thought objections of any great weight against such virtuous characters.

The persons who influenced the ill conduct of those times, would not have been caress'd and espoused, had the people been sensible of the former oppression and tyranny; therefore when such as acted extraordinary parts about 20 years ago, would again impose upon an abused people, it shou'd be our care that such proceedings are not forgot when they shou'd be most remember'd.

Here he animadverts on the methods and arts which were practised to remove, supplant, and displace the illustrious D. of Marlborough, and the upright E. of Godolphin; and reflects on the accomplishments, virtue and integrity of those patriots who succeeded them; and from thence infers what noodles the Whigs were in their impeachment against such a Patriot as the late Lord Vis. B———ke, and what Numsculls the Tories were, in their famous protest, against restoring his title to his patrimony.

Lastly, bids us learn to value health by the sight of sickness, and liberty by the sad appearance of civil and religious tyranny.

The Craftsman, Saturday March 27. No. 247.

TAkes for the subject of his discourfe a report which he had observ'd about town, of a proposal intended to be offer'd for a general excise, under the pretence of taking off the land tax; shews the pernicious consequences of such a scheme; traces the excise to its first original, and in the words of John Hampden, Esq; tells us the occasion of it's being first introduc'd; of it's enlargement from time to time; the various methods used in successive reigns to keep it a-foot; and the mischiefs of it; which may in short be comprehended from his motto to this Paper, viz.

Excise, a Monster, worse than o're before

Frighted the Midwife, and the Mother tore.

A thousand Hands she hath, a thousand Eyes.

Breaks into Shops, and into Cellars pries,

With hundred Rows of Teeth the Shark exceeds.

And on all trades, like Casawar, she feeds,

Chops off the piece, where'er she close the Jaw,

Else swallows all down her indented Maw.

She stalks all day in streets, conceal'd from sight,

And flies, like Bats, with leathern wings by night,

She wastes the Country, and on Cities preys;

Her of a female Harpy, in Dog days

Black Birch, of all the Earth born race most hot,

And most rapacious, like himself begot,

And of his Brat enamour'd, as sh' encreas'd,

Revel'd in incest with the mongrel Beast.

A. Marvel.

The Gubstreet Journal, Thursday, March 25. No. 64.

AN abridgment of faithful Memoirs of the LIfe, Amours, &c. of Mrs. Ann Oldfield, by Wm. Egerton, Esq; done by Mr. Mævius, a member of the Grubean society, gives an account that she was born in Pall-mall, 1683. Her grandfather a vintner, her father rode in the guards, and had a Commission under K. James. She was put to a sempstress in King-street, Westminster. Her mother and she liv'd some time with her sister, Mrs. Voss, who kept the mitre tavern in St. Jame's Marker, In 1699, she was introduced to Mr. Rich by Sir J. Vanbrugh. That she expir'd Octob. 23, 1730, left her estate between her two Sons, Manwaring and Churchil; and was buried in Westminster Abby, in a Brussels lace head-dress, a Holland shift, with tucker and double ruffles of the same lace, and a pair of new kid gloves.

Among the several observations Mr. Mevius makes on this Book, of which he gives this character by way of moto from Harlequin Horace,

Things without Head or Tail, or Form, or Grace,

A wild, false, glaring, unconnected Mass.

the following seem most remarkable, viz. The author quotes a passage in Mr. Pope's familier letters to Henry Cromwel. Esq; in which, he says, he would have put over Mr. Maynwaring this sentence of Tully for an Epitaph, Vitæ bene attæ jucundissima est Recordatio; of which the author gives this extrordinary translation. A life well acted is the best remembrance. These letters here referr'd to, Mr. Mævius says, were publish'd without the consent of those gentlemen, and the author was asham'd of them as trivial things, and only excusable from his youth and inexperience.

In the account which the author gives of Mrs Oldfield's sickness and death, he says, Mrs Saunders, who quitted the stage in 1720, attended her constantly, and did the office of priest to the last: Upon which Mr. Mævius remarks, that this one particular will incline this enlighten'd age to have the better opinion of Mrs. Oldfield's religion, because from thence it may be inferr'd, that neither in her health nor sickness, she was ever Priest-ridden.

Universal Spectator, Sat. March 6. No. 126.

COmmon beggers, the author tells us, are for the most part, idle counterfeits, rogues and profligates; who to avoid working, take up this lazy course of life, and by various disguifes and pretences, extort more money from tender-hearted people, that can be imagin'd, which they squander away in drunkenness and revelling; and doubts not but many of 'em who beg at our doors a-days, are ready to pick our pockets, break into our houses, or assult us in the streets by night.

These evils, he says, are owing to the weakness of some good people, who give money to be rid of the miserable appearances and dismal outcries of the vilest rogues and worst of imposters. As a confirmation of this, tells a story of a gentleman crossing Morefields, who was follow'd by a middle-ag'd shabby fellow importunately begging for six-pence. The gentleman wonder'd at his odd demand, and told him he had not for him: But the fellow walk'd along, repeating his intreaties, till finding no likelihood of success—Well, Sir, says he, with a melancholy air. I shall trouble you no more!—but that small matter wou'd have sav'd me from doing what I shall now be forc'd to do!—Then fetching a deep sigh, he shook his head, and slowly mov'd away.—The strangeess of his words and behaviour, struck the gentleman; this poor creature, thought he, by want is grown desperate, and shall my refusal of such a trifle drive him to extremities? With that, calling back the fellow, here, friend, is six-pence for thee; but 'pr'ythee tell me the meaning of what you said just now. The fellow thank'd him, and pocketting the money, Why truly, master, reply'd he, I've been begging here this whole day to little purpose, and unless your charity had sav'd me from it, must have been sorc'd to work, the thoughts of which gave me no small disquiet.

The other part of this discourse having a pretty near affinity with the arguments used in the London Journal No. 602, on the same subject, we refer our readers thereto, in p. 59, 60. No 2. Vol. I.

Read's Journal, Sat. March 27.

HIS Correspondent Cato gives him, in a letter, his notions of Pleasure, which, he says, some so fiercely declaim against, as if all were beasts who have the least appetite to it.

Next, he describes a more considerable party, which he divides into two classes; the first are those who immerse themselves into pleasures. without regard of consequences; the other consists of the more refined debauchees, who, not content with their own guilt, are assiduous to seduce others, by putting reason to the unnatural task of justifying by argument their apostacy from virtue.

Seneca describes the first class, where, he says, there are a sort of people who pass their lives as straws pass through the water, which do not swim but are carried: They borrow their dress from fashion, take their religion upon trust, and for morals never trouble their heads at all; are a sort of living Adjectives, with significations entirely passive.

This argument Crato illustrates by two examples. The first is Sulpitius, whom he pictures as a man of tolerable parts, but thro' the indulgence of his relations, was not suffer'd to submit to the slavery of a proper education; so that he is a downright straw, and owes his motion wholly to the current of the age, which having driven him by chance among the sticklers for liberty, he is a strenuous advocate for freedom, and takes his notions from the common-place topicks on that head. His private life is acted conformable to that of his companions, who are rakes, and passes thro the world like a horse in a carrier's team, never enquiring the road, but joggs on contentedly in the track of others that goes before him.

Clarissa, the other instance he brings, is one of these fluctuating animals, and now about 25. Having, till of late, resided in and about the court, she lives according to the mode, and has not a single folly but she takes from the fashion; her fortune originally 3000l. is now reduc'd to 1200, by balls, &c. and has consum'd 500l. in two years with the mercer and milliner. Her uncle Thrifty, has oblig'd her to retire to a small village in the neighbourhood of Cambridge, where she and her maid are just what they were, the scene is all that's chang'd, and the same airs which were plaid over in the park, the play-house, and the assembly, now entertain the scholastick beaux esprits at her tea-table, the college-walks, or the commencement.

Concludes with a remark on a notion which the author of the Fable of the Bees had broach'd, viz. That the drunkard, the fop, and other extravagants, are the most useful members of society; this is maintain'd by Carus, who in a public company asserted that young Lucilius was no more to blame in keeping a leash of misses, than a man is for eating veal, mutton, and pork, to assuage his hunger, since the appetite in nature is just alike: Your speech, reply'd old Nestor, seems to give the company uneasiness; revenge is a passion and natural, and therefore in justice we may break your neck down stairs.

Fog's Journal, Saturday March 27. No. 135.

A Correspondent informs him in a letter of a representation made to him by a wealthy farmer, that whereas the tythes of his land are very considerable, they are taken away by the lord of the manor, and the parish-church endow'd with but 8 l. per ann. for the maintenance of a minister, who supplies it but once a month. From hence the writer takes occasion to consider the state of vicarage churches, and is concern'd to find that several hundred thousand miserable souls have liv'd and dy'd (as many thousands now are) destitute of the means of instruction in the christian religion.

As an evidence of this sad truth, observes, that in a large, populous town, where a sufficient provision ought to be made for all the parts of divine service, the whole income remaining to the church, is but 15, 20, or 30 l. yearly: Which is a starving support for a gentleman who has spent 8 or 900 l. in his education. The bishop, in this case, must take some raw young man, perhaps a servitor in a college, who, on his being made Batchelor of Arts, petitions his Lordship in the Stile of Eli's posterity, Put me I pray thee, into one of the priest's offices, that I may eat a piece of bread: Whereby the parishioners, thus poorly supplied, the more loosely given fall into atheistical profaneness, and the more soberly inclin'd, are liable to be drawn into separate congregations.

Yet worse in the condition of many lesser vicarage churches, in villages, which are shut up two or three sundays in the month. Of such he reckon 2000 cures within this kingdom that exceed not 10 l. yearly. But allowing the church open'd every other sunday, yet as many of 'em are too meanly endow'd to support a resident Vicar, the miscarriage of many unhappy souls, may be justly charg'd on the alineation of tythes from their proper use.

The Guilt we are under on account of these alienations, and their consequences, he compares with Saul's slaying the Gibeonites, in violation of a national oath, which was punish'd by a three year's famine; and from thence infers, what a number of souls have dy'd in the state of spiritual Destitution, on account of this national act? Says, we are likewise charg'd with a contemptuous disregard to God's worship, by disabling our fellow christians from performing their publick duty, and shutting up and causing many churches to be deserted.

Adds, that the late Queen's bounty was a vast relief to the ministers of these small cures, but of little benefit to the people, because it will not help 'em to a better qualified, much less a resident ministry.

Expresses his concern, that at the reformation so little regard was shewn in this matter, when it was in the power of the then Vicar-general, under Henry VIII. and A. Bp. Cranmer, very easily to have adjusted this grand affair, and settled it upon another foot.

Is more sensibly affected, that another opportunity offer'd at the Revolution, when many favourable circumstances concurr'd, and the bishops had endear'd themselves to the nation by their steady, resolute, and zealous behaviour; our purses full, taxes small, and a free trade with all nations: But this important article was not thought of, and the consequence was, that providence has taken measures to draw above fifty times more out of our pockets, than would have effectually provided for it.

The London Journal, Sat, March 27. No. 609.

MR. Osborne pursues his discourse on the causes and remedies of Corruption (See p. 107 of this number) and lays it down, That wrong Education is the root and source of all corruption? that the education of our youth ought to be committed to the care of men of knowledge, wisdom, and virtue; men who will form 'em for action, and fill their souls with great and sublime idea's of publick spirit, love of country, and love of mankind.

All governments are oblig'd to take cognizance of their Universities, and publick Schools; and every family to be careful what principles they teach, and what examples they set before their off-spring.

Our All, he says, depends upon education, and nothing is more neglected or mismanag'd? the inculcating in our youth propositions in divinity, is to puzzle, nor to teach, and to confound, not inftruct 'em; instead of which they should be led gradully to see the Reason of Action, what they ought to do, as creatures of such a constitution, and so related in life; which is teaching them virtue, and giving them just notions of pleasure, good and happiness, which arises only from the practice of temperance, justice and benevolence; that when they are thoroughly convinc'd of the reason of action, that there is a beauty and order in things, they are then prepared to receive religion, and are led from the effects to the cause.

Says, politicks, or the art of governing men, can't be obtain'd without knowing what men are, and what actions naturally tend to make them happy; that the sole end of government is the happiness of men; and the laws of nature and society differ only in this, that the laws of society oblige men by temporal sanctions and terror to do and forbear what, if they were wise, they would do and forbear, were there no laws in being.

Concludes with this remark, That under a false notion of politeness, young persons are suffer'd to do what they please, whereas they should be taught self-denial in every thing that may hurt them, or injure others; so will they be led to see, that the very essence of right conduct consists in being able to refuse our selves present and momentary gratifications, for the sake of a more durable, a constant and never-failing good.

Weekly Register, March 27. No. 50.

AN essay upon happiness is inclosed in a letter to the Register, wherein the author recounts several opinions of others as well as his own on that subject. Some of the ancient philosophers endeavour'd to show, that happiness did not consist in riches: True, says he, but then it does not consist in poverty; others, that it did not consist in pleasure; not altogether, but surely it does not consist in pain. The Stoicks commendably plac'd it in virtue alone; but neither did they wholly come up to the thing proposed. Happiness is the butt or point, at which human wit has, thro' all ages, been levelling its arrows, but the marksman was never found.

Our author's opinion is, that human felicity doth not so much consist in superior learning, genius, wisdom, wealth, reputation, and the like, as in a pecular cast of a man's mind, in a certain luckiness of constitution. There is in some men an easy and contented spirit born with them; a joyousness or glee of soul, which shews them every thing in gay and good-humour'd lights; disposes them to be pleased with every thing, and accompanies them equally at all times, and under all circumstances. Sorrow scarce knows the way to their hearts, they are rarely much affected, unless by some great and uncommon stroke of adverfity. A man of this cast sits down free from every care, while the wealthy, the powerful, the wise and virtuous feel pangs from a thousand causes that never touch them. It is this genial temper of soul, he imagines, that seems to bid fairest for happines. To this he adds the happiness which noble minds enjoy, the power of communicating it to others, or the ability of doing stood.

Concludes, there is no such thing in nature as absolute happiness; and that 'tis impossible to conceive rightly about it, or to form a definition of it consistent with Humanity. Men, for the most part, are happy only comparatively, or in respect of the unhappiness of their fellow-creatures. The content or happiness which some have plac'd in a retirement from the cares and tumults of the world, he calls a life of insipidity and void of sensation, and is at best a meer freedom from pain. To be happy, therefore, is to possess as much of the benefits of life, as persons of our rank ordinarily do, and to be as free from the evils and torments of it: All beyond this is a picture of our own creation, and a gay illusive idea.

The Daily Post, Tuesday March 30.

A Letter in answer to one in the Daily Courant, (See p. 98. No. III.)

REmarks that the position advanced by the latter, namely, that the records of the present and past ages will become obsolete by the introduction of a new language and character into the proceedings of the law, is wrong, because practisers must for a long time have recourse thereto, and therefore will be obliged to acquaint themselves with the old language and character.

Another difficulty started by the writer of the Courant, is, the fluctuation of our language, whereby it may become unintelligible to posterity, as Chaucer and Gower are now. To this it's reply'd, That before the Reformation the statutes were in Latin and French, but ever since in English; and the most important acts, relating to our liberties and constitution, are all enacted in our own language; and surely we may commit the proceedings of our courts, and the decisions of private property to our own mother tongue. Neither is it just or compatible with the freedom of a polite and brave people, that their judicial process should be enter'd up in an unknown tongue, and influenced by chicanery and artifice,

What was advanced (p.98.) in the Courant in favour of special pleadings, our author makes an argument for their abolition, namely, that if special pleadings were removed, there would be more Trials, and the righteousness of every man's claim enquired into.

To the objection in regard to the number of Attornies; and that the publick was nor concern'd therein, our author says, that the publick has a right to enquire into every thing, when and as often as it judges necessary.

For these reasons he thinks, that reforming the Profession, and carrying on the proceedings of the law in our own language, is a useful and necessary work; and that whatever reign and administration shall com-compleat so noble a design, they will receive the unanimous thanks and applause of their own age, and be remembered with honour by their posterity. (See the Act for Englishing Law Proceedings, p. 213.)

REMARKS on the BILL depending in PARLIAMENT, to prevent Suits for Tythes, where none, nor any Composition for the same, have been paid in a certain Number of Years.

THE Law for Exemptions from Tythes at present stands thus: If Tythe be demanded, and an Excemption is pleaded, the Incumbent insists upon common Right, and the Exemption must be proved by the Land Proprietor, or he must pay the Tythe.

But by this new Bill, the Proprietor is not to prove his Exemption, tho', if entitled to it, he may very well be supposed to have in his own Hands the Evidence of his Estate being Tythe-free, provided he or his Ancestors bought it really so; but the Proof of Tythe being paid in a certain number of Years, is to rest upon the Incumbent; who coming a Stranger to the Parish, may not know what has been done, and may easily be defrauded where Tythe has not been taken in Kind, but paid in Money, the Receipts for which he can no ways come at, being in the Hands of the Proprietors: Whereas, as the Law now stands, all Clergy are effectually secured against Impositions.

Many Impropriations, Wood-land, Waste, or other privileg'd Lands, which have remain'd so, during the Term to be limitted by this Act, when they come to be improved, or occupied by a Tenant, will be for ever exempted by this Act from paying Tythe, as they ought to do in such Cases.

Considering how many Ways Exemptions do and may grow, there is no Reason to take from the Clergy any Advantages the present Law gives them. The Difficulties they are under, by coming Strangers to a Parish, of procuring Evidence to contest pretended exemptions, the want of Money, or Spirit, to enter into a just Law-suit with a powerful Adversary; the Easiness or Ignorance of some, the undue Influence others are under, particularly Bonds of Resignation (now more openly practis'd than ever) and many officiating under Sequestions, have no Right to sue for Tythes, which may occasion a succeeding Incumbent, who is willing and able to do it, to be wholly precluded by this Act, after a certain Number of Years. This being the Case all the Tythes in the Kingdom may be exposed to, it would be very hard they should be turned into perpetual Exemptions, for no other Reason, but because now and then it may be doubtful, and need the Determination of the Law whether a particular Parcel of Land is really exempt or not.

The standing Rule of all Courts, before and since the Reformation, of admitting no Plea de non decimando, having never been called in question by the Legislature, may have occasion'd some to neglect asserting their Rights, and leave that to succeeding Incumbents, not supposing that Livings would suffer by it, no Statutes for Limitations of Suits, having ever been extended to the Revenues of the Church, which by this Act will be lessen'd every Generation, and possibly more than can be now foreseen.

The Statute of Edward the 6th, on which this Bill seems to be grounded, says, That all prædial Tythes shall be paid in such Manner and Form as hath been of right yielded and paid within forty years next before the making this Act, [or of Right or Custom ought to have been paid.] So that it was not made against, but in favour of the Protestant Clergy, to facilitate the Recovery of such Tythes as had, or ought of Right to have been paid to the Popish Clergy, in the 40 Years referr'd to; all Exemptions to remain as they were before the said Act. Whereas the present Bill is wholly in favour of the Parishioners, and upon Pretence of preventing the Clergy's taking Advantage of demanding Tythe for Lands which are exempted, when the Deeds or Writings proving such Exemption happen to be lost or destroy'd, utterly deprives them after a Discontinuance of Payment for a certain time, of claiming their Right, tho' they should be able to prove it by undoubted Authority: And yet it lays the Proprietors of Lands under no Obligation to declare in a legal manner that such Writings are really lost.

A Proposal at this time the more discouraging to the Order, when People of several persuasions either wholly refuse, or are not over conscientious in paying of Tythes.

One great Pretence of this Bill is, the loss of Evidence, viz. of Original. Grants, &c. which are generally very carefully preserved; but if not, may be probably found in Chancery; and in many Cases sufficient Evidence, whether Lands be exempt or not exempt, may be had from the Office of Augmentation, which is open to every Subject.

The other Pretence is, the preventing Law-suits and Differences; a Freedom from which is a very desirable Blessing; and the greater is their Guilt who will not suffer their Nighbours to enjoy Peace on any Terms but the giving up their just Rights, and the necessary Substance of themselves and Families. But on which Side the Breach of Peace, as occasion'd by Suits for Tythes, does chiefly lie, may be gather'd from the Number of Suits that have prevailed, above what have failed on that account: However, many of these Suits appear to be commenced by Lay-Impropriators, and not Parochial Incumbents. So that 'tis remarked, that the Clergy, generally speaking, are not chargeable with a Multitude of Prosecutions, or bringing such as are deemed vexatious and frivolous; on the other hand, the Truth is, the Rights of some Churches have been lost, by an unwillingness or inability to engage in expensive Law-suits, and many more may be lost, when made irrecoverable after a short Time.

A short Rule to determine the Value of Bar-Silver.

MUltiply the Grots of the Price of a Mark Fine, by 28.—Divide what comes out, by the Pence sterling, of the Price of an Ounce of Standard Silver, and you'll have the Grots Banco, that one Pound sterling produces on Standard Silver in Bars so bought and fold.

EXAMPLES.

Given Standard Silver in Bars at 62 Pence per Ounce: Fine Silver at 24 Guilders 2 Stivers Banco per Mark fine. Quere how much Banco Money does one Pound Sterling produce?

The Grots of 24 Guilders 2 Stivers are 964. These multiply'd by 28, make 26992, these divided by 62 Pence, bring out 435 Grots, or 36 Schellings 3 Grots 1⁄4 Bank Money for one Pound Sterling. Again—Given Standard Silver in Bars at 65 Pence per Ounce: Fine Silver at 25 Guilders 11 Stivers Banco per Mark fine, Quere, how much Banco Money does 1 Pound Sterling produce? The Grots of 25 Guilders 11 Stivers are 1022. These multiply'd by 28, make 28616. These divided by 65 Pence, bring out 440 Grots 10⁄66, or 36 Schellings 8 Grots 1⁄4 Bank Money for 1 Pound Sterling.

Suppose the Exchange betw. Amsterdam and London at 34, 11, what Profit does there arise on Standard Silver at the given Prices in this Example?—To find which, 1761 (the quarter Grots of 36, 81⁄4) being multiply'd by 100, are 176100. These divided by 1676, (the quarter Grots of 34, 11) bring out L. 105:91:05 that is L. 5:01:5 per Cent. Profit, at the Prices above, viz. Bought at 65 Pence—Sold at 25 Guilders 11 Stivess Banco—Return'd by Exchange at 34, 11 per L. Sterling.

The Course of Exchange balanc'd, shewing how to Draw and Remit to Advantage.

Lond March 12 1730/1

Real Prices The exact

Balance Price Amst. Mar. 19, 1730/1

Advised Prices. Gain p. Cent on these

Courses of Excha.

R. P. B. P. A. P. G.

1 Amsterd. 34:11 — P.F. — — — — — — —

2 Paris 31:3⁄4 55:413⁄860:7⁄18 m. 55:— under Price. L. 0:15:071⁄2 p

3 Leghorn 50:5⁄8 88:49⁄127:8⁄8 p. 88:5⁄8 over Price. L. 0:05:053⁄4 p

4 Genoa 53:7⁄8 94:109⁄1926:1⁄16 m. 93:3⁄4 under Price. L. 0:06:061⁄2 p

5 Venice 58:1⁄8 84:323⁄486:11⁄16 m. 85:— over Price. L. 0:07:081⁄2 p

6 Cadiz 42:— 101:188⁄2176:1⁄16 p. 100:3⁄4 under Price. L. 0:06:093⁄4 p

7 Madrid 42:— 80:475⁄544:7⁄8 m. 80:1⁄4 under Price. L. 0:15:061⁄4 p

8 Lisbon 5:55⁄8 45:53⁄64:1⁄13:16 p. 45:6⁄8 under Price. L. 1:11:013⁄4 p

9 Oporto 5:51⁄2 45:889⁄1200:3⁄4 m. 45:— under Price. L. 1:12:11 p

10 Hamburg 33:6 33:71⁄203:3⁄8 m. 33:3⁄16 under Price. L. 0:09:113⁄4 p

11 Dublin 11:5⁄8 — — — — — — — — —

EXPLANATION.

The Column dated London, March 12,1730/1, marked R.P. is the Real Prices of Exchange at London that Day, for the Places numbred, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11.

The Column marked B.P. is the exact Balance Prices (or what the Prices of Exchange should be at Amsterdam) for the Places numbred 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, to be at an exact Par with our London Course, at the Date above-mention'd.

Under P.F. are the practical Fractions, used by Merchants in Exchanges, which come nearest in value to those Fractions of larger Terms, which are in the Column of the Balance Prices. p signifies plus, or more, m signifies minus, or less.

The Column A.P. is the Advised Prices from Amsterdam; shewing how the Exchanges were there, for the Places in our London Course; which advised Prices, compared with the Balance Prices, furnishes a certain Method to know the Profits that present upon every Place in the said two Courses so compared; which Profits per Cent. are in the Column marked G.

The RULE.

For, if the Advised Price be under the Balance Price, there is a presentation of Profit, by drawing (on that Place against which it stands in our London Course) at the Price corresponding to that Place, and remitting to Amsterdam, at the Price against Amsterdam, in the said London Course.

But, if the Advised Price be over the Balance Price, there is a presentation of Profit, by drawing on Amsterdam, at the Price against it in our London Course, and remitting to the Place in our London Course, against which that advised Price stands.

Whereas, whoever draws and remits, contrary to the above Rule misses that Profit which arises by the Exchange Prices put upon our own Money, and that of Foreigners: Since then, whatever is our Loss is their Profit; and on the contrary, whatever is our Profit is their Loss; since the Interest of every particular Merchant, and that of the Public in general, are jointly concern'd in following this Mathod, 'tis not to be doubted but 'twill be encouraged accordingly.

An EXAMPLE on LISBON:

Against Lisbon, in this Calculation, the Balance Price is 45 Grots 53⁄64 Banco of Amsterdam, for one Cruzade of Lisbon of 400 Rées—And the Advised Price is 45 Grots 1⁄4 Banco for said Cruzade—This Advised Price being under the Balance Price.—Whoever therefore (according to the above Rule of Directions) draws on Lisbon, at 5s, 5d1⁄4. Sterling for one Milrea—And remits to Amsterdam, at 34 Schellings 11 Grots Banco for one Pound Sterling, will find a Profit of L 1:11:013⁄4 Sterling per Cent. by so negotiating his Money, against that of Foreigners.—For L 100 Sterling, taken at 5s. 5d. 5⁄8 Sterling for his Draught on Lisbon, draws thence 365,714 Rées—And L 100 Sterling so taken, deliver'd for Amsterdam, at 34 Schellings 11 Grots Banco for one Pound Sterling, remits to Amsterdam 1047 Guilders 10 Stivers Banco.—And 1047 Guilders 10 Stivers Banco of Amsterdam, at 45 Grots 1⁄8, the Advised Price for a Cruzade, will replace at Lisbon, 371,412 Rées for 365,714 Rées that were drawn thence. And the difference of these two Lisbon Sums, is a Gain of L 1, 11:013⁄4 per Cent. in our Favour, on the Monies so exchanged, as in the Calculation above, in the Column marked G.

N. B. The Impossibility of making a true Judgment on the Exchanges, without the Balance Prices, shews the Usefulness, and Necessity of that Column, in the Courses of Exchange. And such as do not know how, or have not Time to calculate them, may be furnish'd with Collet's Course of Exchange, exactly balanc'd every Tuesday and Friday.

A Short TABLE, Shewing what Stamps are required by Act of Parliament, to all Instruments or Writings whatsoever, useful to Merchants, Notaries, Scriveners, Attornies, &c.

Double 1d. COPY of Answers, Bills, Declarations, Demurrers, Interrogatories, Pleas, Replications, Rejoinders, or other Pleadings at Law, and other Proceedings in Equity, Copies of Wills, and Almanacks.

Single 4d. Bill of Lading.

Single 8d. Certificate, or Debenture for Drawback.

Single 6d. Cards, Parish Indentures, Scotch Deed not charg'd with 2s. 3d. and Apprentice Duty, if under 50l. be given.

Double 6d. Affidavits, and Copies thereof; Appearance on common Bail, Orders, Rules, Records and Proceedings in each Court at Westminster, Allegation, Answer, Libel, Deposition, Dismission, Sentence, Final Decree, Inventory exhibited, or Copies thereof in Ecclesiastical Court, Admiralty, or Cinque Ports.

Treble 6d. Act Notarial, Bond, Charter Party, Contract, Deed or Deed Poll, Indenture, Obligatory Instrument, Letter of Attorney, Warrant of Attorney, Bill of Sale, Lease, Passport, Procuration, Release, Protest, and Presentation under 10l. in the King's Books.

Treble 6d. Suitors Duty. Entry of Actions, Capias, Bill of Middlesex, Citation, Monition in Ecclesiastical Court, Admiralty, or Cinque Ports, Dedimus potestatem, Latitat, Mandate, Original Writ, (unless præ Capias) Process quo minus Subpœna, Transfer, and all other Writs where the Debt is above 40 s.

Single 12d. License for Beer, Ale, or Exciseable Liquors, Brandy, or other Distill'd Liquors by Retail, Advertisement, and Apprentice Duty, if above 50l. be given.

Double 12d. Admission, Appearance on Special Bail, Answers, Bills, Depositions, Demurrer, Interrogatories, Replications, Rejoinders, and other Proceedings in Equity, and Matriculations.

Single 2s. 3d Adjudication, Admittance or Surrender of Copyhold Estates, or Copy of Court Roll, or Grant or Lease by Copy of Court Roll, Apprizings, Charter, Resignation, clare constat, Cognition of Heirs Heritable Right, Confirmation, Novodamus, Principal and Original Instrument of Surrender, Retour, Saifin and Service in Scotland, and Transfer of Stock.

Single 4s. 2d. Policy of Assurance.

Double 2s 6d. Warrant, Monition, or Personal Decree in the Admiralty and Cinque Ports, Ecclesiastical Commision, Judgment, and Record, Nisi prius & postea.

Treble 2s. 6d. Beneficial Warrant, except for Service of Navy, Army, and Ordnance.

Single 4s. Wine Licence.

Single 4s. 6d. Transfer Stock.

Single 5s. Certificate and Licence for Marriage, Deed Enrolled, Writ of Covenant, Entry, Habeas Corpus, Dice, Institution, or Licence in Scotland, or Writ of like Purpose. Double 5s. Administration above 20l. Appeals (except to Delegates) Attachment, Certioari, Writ of Error, Examplification under Seal of Court; Statute, Merchant and Staple; Probates above 20l. Recognizance and Entries thereof; Relaxation and Sentence in Admiralty and Significavit pro corporis deliberatione.

Treble 5s. Institution or Licence Ecclesiastical, except Schoolmasters and Tutors, and Letters of Merit.

Single 40s. Appeals to Admiralty in Scotland, Register Entry, Testimonal or Certificate of Degrees in Universities, or four Inns of Court; Brief, and Newgate Pardons.

Double 40s. Collation, Donation, Grants of Lands and Profits, Ecclesiastical Dignities and Promotions, Pardon of Money under 100l. and Benefice and Presentation above 10l. in King's Books.

Treble 40s. Appeal from Admiralty, Arches or Prerogative Court of Canterbury or York, Admittance of Fellow of College of Physicians, Attorney, Clerk, Advocate, Proctor, Notary, or Officer of any Court, except Salary under 10l., Dispensation or Faculty; Pardon of Corporal Punishment, Crime, Forfeiture, Offence or Money above 100l. except Circuit Pardons; Grants of Office or Employment, Honour, Dignities, Promotions, Franchise, Liberty, Privilege, Reprieve, Letters Patent, and Exemplifications.

Note. This TABLE is to be had neatly printed on fine Paper, to be framed for Offices, with Notes referring to all the Acts of Parliament relating to, and requiring Stamps, as above mention'd.

* * *

LOTTERY, 1731.

The SCHEME

80,000 Tickets 10 l. each 800,000

2 10,000 l. each 20,000

4 5000 Ditto 20,000

2 3000 Ditto 6000

5 2000 Ditto 10,000

14 1000 Ditto 14,000

21 500 Ditto 10,500

237 100 Ditto 23,700

7715 20 Ditto 154,300

8000 Benefits 258,500

First drawn 500

Last drawn 1000

260,000

72,000 Blanks 7 l. 10s. each 540,000

80,000 800,000

The Blanks and Benefits are to bear an Interest of 3 per cent. per Annum, payable at the Bank, free of all Charges whatsoever.

* * *

Abstract of the London WEEKLY BILL from Tuesday, March 2. to Tuesday March 30.

Christned Males 1054 1954

Females 900

Buried Males 1175 2388

Females 1213

Of which dy'd (Casualties 41) of Consump. 340, Fevers 312, Small pox 239.

Died under 2 Years old ——— 907

Between 2 and 5 ——— 178

Between 5 and 10 ——— 74

Between 10 and 20 ——— 67

Between 20 and 30 ——— 195

Between 30 and 40 ——— 235

Between 40 and 50 ——— 239

Between 50 and 60 ——— 151

Between 60 and 70 ——— 161

Between 70 and 80 ——— 94

Between 80 and 90 ——— 78

Between 90 and 100 ——— 9

To prevent the MAILS being robb'd.

THE Bristol Mail, after passing unmolested five Years, having been robb'd twice last Year, and the Persons convicted thereof discover'd by Indorsements on Bank Notes taken away, it has been thought proper by the Postmafter general, to re-publish the Method prescribed in 1724, with some necessary Additions, to make it more difficult for Highway-men, or their Accomplices, to put off such Notes; which Method, as now improved, is recommended to Practice by all Persons who shall send Notes by the Post, viz. to write on the Back the Proprietor's Name, and the Place where sent from and to, with the Day of the Month in Words, not in Figures, which have been alter'd; and to write on the other side an Order to stop Payment, if the Mail is robb'd, in the following manner:

On the Back.

London, March the first, 1730, per Post to Chester,

John Hind, Proprietor of this Note.

On the face of the Note:

Upon Notice that the Mail is robb'd, stop Payment

at the Bank, until Advice from

John Hind

John Strong

If there is occasion to remit the said Note to London, write,

Chester, March the tenth, 1730, per Post to London,

John Strong, Proprietor of this Note.

The Order to stop Payment need not be writ again, only sign'd as above by John Strong under the other Name, and so by every Proprietor, the Names answering on each side. As a further Caution, it is required that the Proprietors keep by them a Memorandum of such Endorsements, also of the Number, Date, and Sum of each Note sent by Post.

N.B. An exact Plan of these Directions may be seen at every Post-house.

Foreign Affairs.

Moscow, Feb. 16.

THE Swedish Minister having demanded of Baron Osterman a plain declaration concerning the report, that her Czarian Majesty designed to send a fleet to the coasts of the Baltick, to execute the promise made to furnish the Emperor with 30,000 men, and to send them by the way of Poland; the Vice-Chancellor answered him, That the report was without foundation.

March, 20. Extract of a private letter from Seville.—A beginning has been made in the distribution of the effects of the Flotilla, and it is given out, that the silver will be delivered very speedily; all at the instances of the Court of Great Britain. Which is a manifest proof, not only of the good understanding between the 2 Crowns, but that what is doing before Gibraltar, is really with no other view, than to prevent a contraband Trade, which has been carried on there, to the great prejudice of his Majesty's revenues, without the least thought of attacking the place.

Vienna, March 16. A Treaty was concluded between his Imperial Majesty and the King of Great Britain, which among other, contains the following Articles, 1. That the Quadruple Alliance shall be hereby renewed, and serve for the Basis of this Treaty. 2. That England guarantees his Imperial Majesty's Female Succession, as it is already, or may hereafter be settled by that Prince. 3. That 6000 Spanish Troops shall be admitted into Italy, in behalf of the Infante Don Carlos; that is to say, 4000 Men to secure the eventual Succession to the Great Dutchy of Tuscany for that Prince, and 2000 to take Possession of the Dutchies of Parma and Placentia. 4. That the Emperor shall absolutely revoke the Ostend Company's Charter, without so much as permitting Ships to go to such Places of the East Indies, where the English and Dutch have no Trade. 5. That the Affairs of East Friesland and Mecklemburg, shall be amicably adjusted. 7. That all good Offices shall be used with the King of Denmark in the behalf of the Duke of Holstein, concerning the Restitution of the Dutchy of Sleswick. That the States General and the Crowns of Sweden and Denmark, shall be invited to accede to this Treaty within six Months.

Amsterdam, Mar. 26. Letters from Cadiz advise, that the Sea being blown away in a late Storm, they had discover'd the Ruins of a Temple which was believed to be that of Hercules, so famous in Antiquity, and that 3 Statues were found therein, 1 of them gilt with Gold, another of massy Silver, and the third of Brass, all 3 exceeding beautiful.

Paris, Mar. 27. A Person sent to Senegal, in search of Mines, is returned, and says, that having travelled 300 Leagues into the Country, he came to a great Chain of Mountains, in which were several Gold Mines, and that all the Rivers that flow from those Mountains have Gold Dust, of which he has brought a litle bag as a Specimen.

Boston in N. England, Jan. 18, Extract from the Answer of the Hon. House of Representatives, to his Excellency's Speech, Dec. 31.—We are fully persuaded, that this House have gone as far as they can with safety to their People, in the Bill for your Excellency' Support. Our universal and strict loyalty to his Majesty, and high respect and great confidence in your Excellency, have kept us free from all Prejudices and Prepossessions: yet after the most deliberate and calm consideration we dare not come into Settlement according to your Excellency's frequent and urgent Proposals. It is matter of great concern to us that your Excellency, should make the least suggestion, that we are wanting in loyalty; there certainly cannot be any grounds for it from what we have been necessitated to do in faithfulness to his Majesty's good People here; whose real good, conformable to his glorious example, we hope your Excellency will ever seek and desire.

Extract of his Excellency's Message to them, Jan. 2.—I am apt to believe you will finally find one act of duty and loyalty would have been more to the service of your country, than all your Pretences thereto which you have been able to dress up. Since you seem resolved to make no further advances towards a compliance with the King's Instruction, I am the more satisfy'd, that I am doing my duty to the King, and his good People here, in dissolving this Court; by which I give the People of this Province an opportunity of shewing the obedience and loyalty, and their tender care of their liberties and privileges, in sending such to represent them in the next Assembly, as shall free them from the heavy charge and expence of this unreasonable dispute, &c. J. Belcher

THE

Monthly Intelligencer.

MARCH, 1731.

Monday, March 1.

BEING the Anniversary of the Queen's Birth-day when her Majesty enter'd the 49th Year of her Age, there was a splendid Appearance of Nobility and Gentry at St. James's; her Majesty was magnificently dress'd, and wore a flower'd Muslin Head, and Edging, as did also her Royal Highness.

The L, Portmore was said to have the richest Dress, tho' an Italian Count had 24 Diamonds instead of Buttons.

The City of Lincoln put up in their Guildhall the Pictures of their present Majesties, his late Majesty, and his Royal Highness, the two last the Gift of Mr. Powmnel of that Place.

York March, 1. This Day the R. Hon. the Lord Mayor and Aldermen, &c. laid the Foundation-stone of the Theatre that is to be erected on the Plan of the R. H. the Earl of Burlington, our Lord Lieut. and Governor. It will be 92 Foot in the Front, (where will be a magnificent Portico) and 136 Foot in Depth, and will consift of seven fine Rooms, one of which will have a Colonade of 48 Corinthian Pillars supporting the upper part of the Building, which is to be adorn'd with the like Number of Pilasters of the same Order, Windows being between each to the Number of 44: There will be a Gallery all round on the out-side, where People may look in at the Windows, and see all that passes in the Inside.—At 12 o' Clock three Troops of Gen. Churchil's Regiment march'd to the Lord Mayor's who, &c. performed the Ceremony of laying the Stone, which had a Latin Inscription fix'd on it in Brass, and several Pieces of our Coin, the Troops firing at the same time, and the twelve Bells of the Minster ringing, &c. The Inscription follows:

Imp. GEORGIO Aug. II.

`Richardus Comes de Burlington, Hujus urbis Præses, Seculi Marenas, bas Ædes erexit: Quo publici exhibeantur Ludi. Quo Proceves undique confluant, Quo artes efflorescant Liberales, Quo (dilatante negotio) gloria pristina Novo Eboraci splendore Ohumbretur. Ab boc die natali Caroline Reginæ serenissimæ nostra Mar. 1. A. D. MDCCXXX. Stabit Briganiual Epocha.

TUesday March 2.

Several Masters and Sailors of Bristol Merchant ships, that were taken by Spanish Guard da Costas, came to Town to give an Account to the Parliament of the cruel Treatment they met with from the Spaniards.

Wednesday, March 3.

Thomas Marsh was try'd at Reading, for robbing the Bristol Mail near Maiden-head Thicket, Aug. 31st last, and being found guilty was sentenc'd to be hang'd in Chains near the Place.

Thursday, March. 4.

Was a Meeting of the Royal Society, when Roger Gale, esq; read a learned Discourse concerning the Papyrus and Stylus of the Ancients, extracted in English from a larger Dissertation in Latin, composed by Sir John Clerk, Baron of the Exchequer in Scotland, and at the same time he presented them with the Original.

Came on at Winchester the Trials of Sir Simon Clarke, Bar. and Lieut. Robert Arnott, who were convicted of a Robbery on the High-way. A numerous concourse of Gentry were present; Sir Simon made a most pathetick and moving Speech which had such an Effect, that there was scarce a dry Eye in the Court. The High-Sheriff and Grand-Jury, considering the Antiquity, Worth and Dignity of Sir Simon's Ancestors, the Services they had done their King and Country, together with the Youth and melancholly Circumstances of that unhappy Gentleman, agreed to address his Majesty on their behalf; upon which a Reprieve sine Die was granted them.

Came on a Trial at Guildhall in an Action of Scandal for Words spoken by the Defendant, to prevent the Plaintiff's being admitted a Sollicitor in the High Court of Chancery, which being undeniably proved, the Plaintiff recover'd 100l. Damage.

Monday, March 8.

Charlsworth and Cox, two Sollicitors, convicted of Forgery, stood on the Pillory at the Royal Exchange, pursuant to their Sentence; the first was severely us'd by the Populace, but the other was very much favour'd and protected by 6 or 7 Fellows who got upon the Pillory to screen him from the Insults of the Mob.

Five Malefactors were executed at 'Tyburn, viz. Wm Maynee, for erasing and altering two Endorsements on a Bank Note of 50l. John Chapel for the Murder of Mary Martin; George Wych, alias Wheat, Thomas Andrews, and Wm Williams, all three for Robberies on the Highway. See p 128.

Alexander Russel, the Foot Soldier, who was capitally convicted for a Street-robbery in January Sessions, was reprieved for Transportation, but having an Estate fallen to him, he obtain'd a free Pardon.

Tuesday, March 9.

Upwards of 100 Convicts removed from Newgate, to be transported to America.

Wednesday, March 11.

'Tis advised from Belfast in Ireland, that 5 or 6 Rogues lately broke into the House of Tr. Gilliland, near Glenarm, in the County of Antrin and pillag'd it, except one Room, which was defended by two young Men, who had two Swords and Fork; one of the Rogues being got half within the Door, was stabb'd with the Fork, which made him drop his Broadsword and cry out; upon this the others fled, and left him a Prisoner with the young men, who carried him next Day to Carrickfergus Gaol.

Friday, March 12.

The Assizes ended at Northampton when the six following Persons received Sentence of Death. viz. William Walker, and Tho. Parsons, for the Murder of John Hall; they were both Troopers in the Ld. Cobbam's Company, and committed the Murder on their being refused admittance into a Publick-houfe in Northampton late at Night; Thomas Chester, on the Black Act, for cutting down and destroying several young Oak-trees, belonging to John Blencowe, of Marston, Esq. Tho. Brown and John Wood, a Foot-soldier in the 3d Regiment of Foot-guards, for Burglary; and William Fisher, for Horse-stealing. Chester, Brown, Fisher, and Parsons, were repriev'd for Transportation.

It is remarkable, that at the Assizes held at Oakham for the County of Rutland, there was no Prisoner, nor one Cause try'd.

The Assizes ended at Chelmsford, for the County of Essex, when seven Persons were capitally convicted; three of whom were repriev'd for Transportation; and the 4 following order'd for Execution, viz. Alice White, for Murder and Burglary, Brewer White, her Son, for Burglary; Rich. Appleyard, for a Robbery on the Highway; and Eliz. Gossard, for forging a Note of Hand and Bond of one Mr. Sam. Mortier, of Colchester.

Saturday, March 13

Juftice Webster sent for Justice De Veil to a Coffee-house in Leicester-fields, when Words arising, the former struck the other; on which Mr. De Veil retreating to draw his Sword, Mr. Webster stab'd him in the Belly about 5 Inches deep. The Quarrel was occasion'd by Justice Webster's superseding a Warrant granted by Mr. De Veil against an Irishman, who was Mr. Webster's Country-man.

Monday, March 15.

Mr. Creech was chosen Head Master of Merchant-Taylors School, by the Court of Assistants, in the room of Dr. Smith, deceased; and the Rev. Mr. Fryton, Curate of St. Bartholomew's and Lecturer of St. Martin's Outwich, succeeds Mr Creech as second Master; the Rev. Mr Broaker, Curate of Walbrook, succeeds Mr Fayton as third Master; and the Rev. Mr. Barns Curate of Chiselhurst, succeeds Mr Broaker as Under-master.

Wednesday, March 17.

At the Assizes lately held at Monmonth, a Bayliff was convicted of taking Money to excuse Freeholders from their Attendance at the Assizes, and fined for his first Offence 40s. for his second and third, 5l. each, pursuant to the late Act for the better Regulation of Juries, which was observed on the Circuits had so good an Effect as to put a stop to the pernicious Practice of corrupting Juries.

Friday, March 10.

A Grant passed the proper Seals from the Crown to her Majesty, of the Mannor of East Greenwich in Kent, and after her decease, to Pr. William, the Princess Royal, and the Princess Emilia, and for the Life of the survivor of them.

Monday, March 22.

Letters from Teneriff advise, that a great Storm had done incredible Damage to that Island, by blowing down Houses and Church Steeples, destroying Vineyards, and carrying Goats and Sheep into the Sea.

The Experiment intended to be made on the Ear of Cha. Ray, is laid aside, and he is to have a Pardon.

Wednesday, March 24.

Mess. Woodwards, two noted Bankers in Exchange alley, stopt Payment.

Tuesday, March 30.

The last Advices from Barbados, and the Leeward Islands, give an account, that they were in great want of Rain, particularly at Antigua, from whence (the Springs in that Island being salt) they sent to Mountserrat for fresh Water.

Wednesday, March 31.

Sir John Shelby's Lady, Sister to the Duke of Newcastle, was deliver'd of a Son at Sir John's House in Duke-street, Westminster.

The following Scots Proclamation for a Fair has been lately publish'd here.―O yes! and that's e'e time; O yes! and that's twaa times; O yes! and that's theird and last time: All manner of pearson and pearsons whasoe'er, let 'um draw near, and I shall let them kenn, that their is a Fair to be held at the muckle Town of Langholm for the space of aught Days; wherein if any Hustrin, Custrin, Land-louper, Dub-skouper, or Gang the gate Swinger, shall bread any Urdam, Durdam, Rabblement, Brabblement, or Squabblement, he shall have his Lugs tack'd to the muckle Trone, with a Nail of twal a Penny, untill he down of his Hobshanks, and up with his muckle Doaps, and pray to Hea'n, neen times God bless the King, and thrice the muckle Loard of Relton, paying a Groat to me, Jemmy Ferguson, Baily of the aforesaid Mannor.―So you heard my Proclamation, and I'll haam to my Danner.

DEATHS.

ON the 20th past, the E. of Cromarty dy'd at Castle-Leod, in Scotland, in an advanced Age.

March 1. Rob. Corker, Esq; Member of Parliament for Bossiney in Cornwal.

——— Wood of Woodstreet in Spittle-fields, Esq; a Justice of the Peace.

This Day came Advice of the Death of General Bulau, Commander in chief of his Majesty's Forces at Hanover.

Alfo, that Sir Gervase Clifton, Bar a Roman-catholick, dy'd at his Seat in Nottinghamshire, Feb. 27. The Dignity and Estate descend to his eldest Son, Sir Robert Clifton, Kt. of the Bath, and Representative in Parliament for the Borough of East-Redford.

2 The Rev. Mr. David Campredon, Vicar of Shepardswel and Coleredo, and Rector of Charlton.

The Rev. Mr. Frank, Arch-Deacon of Bedford, Prebendary of Lincoln, and Rector of Cranfield in Bedfordshire in the last he is succeeded by his eldest son.

Moses Hart, Esq; at Camberwel in Surrey, a Gentleman of Somersetshire.

3. In Childbed, the Wife of Sir William Billers, Kt. and Alderman.

The Rev. Mr. Sherrier, Minister of Shawell in Leicestershire.

The Rev. Dr. Richard Harris, in the 82d Year of his Age, at Breadwardine in Herefordshire, Minister of that Place and Leominster, which he enjoy'd upwards of 55 Years. It being in his own Gift, he dispos'd of it to his Son the Rev. Mr. Higgon Harris.

At Rugby in Warwicksh. the Rev. Mr. Hen. Holyoak: He had been Schoolmaster of that Place above 40 Years, during which Time he sent great Number of finish'd Scholars to both Universities. He was Son to the learned Mr. Tho. Ho'yoak, Author of the celebrated Dictionary that bears his Name. He was a Gentleman universally esteem'd for his singular Learning and Humanity.

5. Geo. Cooke, Esq; one of the Gentlemen-Ushers, Quarter-waiters in ordinary to his Majesty, in which Place he is succeeded by his eldest Son.

Capt. Edward Harrison, at his Lodgings in Piccadilly, many Years in Commission in the Reigns of King William and Queen Anne.

7. Mr. Hopton in Broad Sanctuary Westminster. He left a considerable Legacy to the Grey-coat Hospital; to his Sifter 2400l. per ann. and after her decease, 250 l. per ann. for ever to establish a School for the Education of Boys in the Mathematicks, to qualify them for the Sea-service.

The Dutchess of Tyrconnel, Sister to the Dutchess Dowager of Marlborough, at Dublin, said to be 104 Years old.

William, Earl of March, at Raynton, the Seat of his Father-in-Law the E. of Rutherglen, in the 35th Year of his Age, and has left Issue two Sons.

An Express arriv'd at St. James's, with an account of the Death of the Princess of Anhault, her Majesty's Sister.

9. Thomas Twisdale, Esq; by whose Death an Estate of about 100 l. per ann. devolved to Joshua Stevens, Esq; a young Gentleman of Cambridge.

Sir Horatio Pettus, Bar at his Seat at Rackheath in Norfolk, and is succeeded in Dignity and Estate by his second Son, now Sir John Pettus, Bar.

20. Mr. Moses Medina, a noted Jew, at his House in Bury street.

The only Daughter of William Bridges, Esq; and Sister of Mr. Bridges of the Chancery Office.—600 l. per ann. and 6000 l. go from the Family by her Death.

The Ld. William Manners, youngest Son to the Duke of Rutland.

——— Mulsoe, Esq. at Northampton. He was a Bencher of the Middle Temple, and formerly Clerk of the Affize of the Oxford Circuit.

* The Lady Dorothy Boyle, youngest Daughter to the Earl of Burlington.

Henry Creswick, of Inmarsh Moreton, in Gloucestershire, Esq; in the Commion of the Peace, and Major of the Trained-Bands.

12. Mrs. Williams, Wife of Edward Williams, Esq; Daughter to the late Roderick Lloyd, Esq; of Essex-street, having been lately brought to Bed.

Mrs. Barnes, Widow, who was in custody in the late Reign, on Account of the late Bp. of Rochester's Business.

Ric. Price, Esq; at Hays in Middx. formerly a Register in Chancery.

13. Mr. Joshua Green, a Woollen-draper in Ludgate-street, and an Ensign in the Guards.

14. Mr. Henry Barns, Deputy-Filazer of London and Middlesex.

The Wife of Mr. Drake, a Druggist in Fleet-street, Sister to the Hon. Arthur Onslow, Esq; Speaker of the House of Commons.

Mrs. Pitt, Relict of the late Dr. Pitt, at her House in Conduit-street,

Ro. Gale, Esq; at Barnes, Son of Benj. Gale, of Abbot's Langley in Hertfordsh.

18. Richard Gulston. Esq; at Widial Hall in Hertfordshire.

Mr. Inwood, a rich Merchant, Father to Col. Inwood of the Guards.

10. The Duke of Wolfenbuttle-Lunenburgh.

24. Mr. Nathaniel Wraxall, at Bristol, late Sheriff of that City.

25. The Wife of ——— Gascoigne, Esq; at Turnham-Green.

26. The Rev. Mr. Wilmot going to Stapleforth, in Hertfordshire, his Horse fell with him, and kill'd him on the Spot.

28. The Daughter of Sir Charles Peers, of an Illness with which she was seized the Evening before at the Play-house in Drury-lane.

Dr. Mountford, one of the Censors of the College of Physicians, at his Mr. Honuse in Wine-Office-Court, Fleet-street.

Dr. Kinch, a Dissenting Minister, at his House in Spittle-fields.

29. Lewin Cholmley, Esq; Brother to John Cholmley, Esq; formerly Representative for the Borough of Southwark.

29. Colonel Mohun, at his House in Poland-street.

Arthur Newcomb, Esq; Seal-keeper of the City of Chester, fell down a pair of Stairs, pitch'd upon his Head, and died immediately.

An Account of the Malefactors executed at Tyburn.

1. William Maynee, suffer'd for feloniously erasing two Indorsements from Bank-Notes, the first for 25l. from a Note of 50l. and the other for erasing an Indorsement of 30l.

He was aged about 48, born in Canterbury, and well educated. When of Age he was put Apprentice to a Wholesale Grocer in Watling-street. Being out of his Time, his Mother sent him to Jamaica, to recover some Money left by his Uncle. On his return he marry'd; but on some Difference, his Wife and he parted by Consent, and he went to Norflk, intending to lead a Country Life, where he marry'd a second Wife; but leaving her, he came to Town, and being a dextrous Accomptant, was admitted a Clerk in the Bank about 8 Years since. Being deeply in Debt, he hearken'd to a Proposal made him by one W———n, of recruiting himself from the large Sums that were current in the Bank, W———n received the Money for him, and had share of it; but growing more urgent, Maynee swore he would give him no more, so carry'd on his Frauds by himself. About the Year 1724, he marry'd a third Wife. All the mony he cheated the Bank of from the Year 1728, amounted to 4420l. Sterling. Being suspected, he was stopt at the Bank, Jan. 2d, and sent to the Compter, from whence he sent to the Deputy-Governor of the Bank, intimating, that if he might be admitted to the mercy of Transportation to Jamaica, he would make a full Confession and Discovery; and by the Answer brought back, conceiving some Hopes, he made and sign'd his Confession, impeach'd his Accomplice, and pleaded guilty on his Trial.

At the Place of Execution, he begg'd Pardon of the Court of Directors, pray'd for the Prosperity of the Bank, and dy'd very penitent.

2. John Chapel, aged 41, born in London, after a common Education, was put Apprentice to a Barber, afterwards marry'd, but his Wife being of a crazy Constitution, occasion'd him much Trouble and Charge. She dy'd, as reported, by Poyson which he gave her; but this, with the Story of his ravishing a Girl of 6 or 7 Years old, and of his forcing a near Relation of his against her Will, he absolutely deny'd. As to the Crime for which he suffer'd, he gave the following Account, viz. That coming acquainted with Sarah Martin, a Washerwoman, he often committed Uncleanness with her, and being with Child by him, she continually teaz'd him to marry her, which he could not comply with, because his Place in the Workhouse requir'd his being a single Person, and that she lov'd drinking, and was of a base wicked Temper; and therefore resolv'd to leave her, but could not, she haunting him continually: This he said, was the occasion of his conceiving a Design of her Murder, which he thus accomplish'd. They made an Appointment to take a Walk one Evening. Going towards Hoxton, they call'd at a Publick-house and drank together. When they came thence, Chapel desir'd her to return to Town and leave him, for he would never bear her Company, But she cursing and threatning him in an outragious Manner, he, with an Oaken-stick knock'd her down suddenly, and repeated his Blows with violence. She cry'd out, O! John, John, have Mercy, save my Life, but he redoubled his Strokes, and took out his two Knives, and gave her several Wounds, and stuck one of the Knives in her Scull. When she was quite dead, he left her and his murdering Tools, and return'd to Town; but was soon apprehended—he confess'd the Fact, pleaded guilty at the Old Baily, and had such strong Impressions of his Guilt, that he form'd a Prayer for his own use, and was very penitent to the Moment of his death

3. George Wych, convicted of robbing on the highway, was near 18 years old, of a good family, brought up at Westminster school, which leaving, he joyn'd himself with whores, thieves, and such like other abandon'd wretches, gaming away his money, and sometimes his cloaths; at last he ran away from his mother, his father being beyond sea; and never appeared again till taken up for two robberies. He seem'd to have but little contrition but what proceeded from the near approach of Death.

4. Thomas Andrews, alias Anderson, aged 19 and born in Worcestershire, was Wych's companion, and suffer'd for the same Crime, and had much the same character with his associate, both in life and death.

5. William Williams, aged 30, born in Yorkshire, and partner with the other two in the same crimes; said his business was to travel the country as a chapman; that the cause of this misfortune was poverty which he was reduc'd to by his wife's sickness; and that he was in a manner forc'd into this action by the curses, threats and imprecations of his companions and fellow sufferers; which he was heartily sorry, and forgave all injuries done him.

PROMOTIONS.

March 2. JOHN LADE, Esq; in Commission of the Peace for the County of Surry, created a Baronet.

William Reede, Esq; appointed Consul at Tripoly.

Thomas Paget, Esq; Groom of his Majesty's Bed-chamber, appointed Lieut. Col. to the 2d Troop of Horse-Grenadiers, in the room of Col. Cope, now Col. of the late Brigadier Newton's Regiment of Foot.

4. Mr. Webb, a Cloth drawer in St. Helen's, chosen Common-Council-Man of Bishopsgate Ward, in the room of Mr. Rodoway, deceas'd.

5. Me. Nourse, elected a Demonstrator and Teacher of Anatomy at Surgeon's Hall, in the room of Mr. Symonds, who resign'd.

5. Mr. Albert Delande, Student in Cambridge, and Son to Capt. Delande, made Filazer for the County of Suffolk.

John Caulfield, Esq; made one of the Clerks of his Majesty's Privy-Scal, and Clerk of the Council of the Court of Requests, in the room of Rob. More, Esq;

9. Edward Penrose, of Penrose in Cornwal, succeeds the late Robert Corker, Esq; as Receiver for his Royal Highness.

Capt. Charles Handafyd, succeeds Capt. John Goodrick, deceas'd, in Brigadier Barrell's Regiment.

Edward Walpole, Esq; newly return'd from his Travels, took his Place as Secretary to the Board of Treasury.

The Earl of Essex appointed Ambassador to the Court of Turin.

10. The Hon. Morgan Vane, Esq; who attended the Ld. Harrington in his Negotiations abroad, sworn a Clerk of the Privy Council in Extraordinary, in the room of Wm. Sharpe, Esq; lately admitted in Ordinary, in the Place of Edward Southwel, deceas'd.

The Hon. William Finch, Esq; Brother to the Earl of Nottingham, appointed Ambassador at the Hague, in the room of the Earl of Chesterfield, who is on his return home.

The Earl of Loudoun appointed his Majesty's High Commissioner to the General Assembly in Scotland.

Mr. Manning appointed Landwaiter in the Port of London in the room of Mr. Paxton, deceas'd.

Mr. Hayes, made Naval-Officer at Gibraltar, in the room of Mr. Haggee dec.

Mr. Gother Naval-Officer at Port-Mahon, in the room of Mr. Hayes.

Mr. Masch succeeds Mr. Gother, as Foreman of the Float at Woolwich.

Mr. Agle, Nephew to Sir George Markham, appointed Lieutenant in General Wynne's Horfe.

Mr. Charles Dartiquenave, Surveyor General of the King's Gardens, succeeds Brigadier Gen. Watkins, as Surveyor of his Masetty's private Roads.

22. The Lady Susanna Hamilton, Sister to the D. of Hamilton and Brandon, appointed Lady of the Bed chamber to (their Royal Highnesses) the three eldest Princesses, with a Salary of 300l. per Ann. in the room of the Countess of Sussex, deceas'd.

Mr. Baudry, one of his Majesty's Messengers extraordinary, succeeds Mr. Guy Stone, deceas'd, as Messenger in Ordinary.

Mr. Money, a Domestick of Horatio Walpole, Esq; is made Messenger extraordinary, in the room of Mr. Baudry.

CASUALTIES.

March 1. Two Youths at Eaton School, of about 12 Years of Age, quarrelling at play, one drew a Penknife and stabb'd the other to the Heart, who dy'd immediately. He was only Son to Mr. Cockram, an Antigua Merchant, the other's Name was ——— Dalton, Son of the late L. C. Justice of Ireland.

3. Part of the Seat of the Duke of Beaufort at Badminton in Gloucestershire was burnt, and one Servant perish'd in the Flames.

A poor Man was found hanging in a Gentleman's Stables at Bungay in Norfolk, by a Person who cut him down, and running for Assistance, left his Penknife behind him; the poor Man recovering, cut his Throat with it, and a River being nigh, jump'd into it, but Company coming, he was dragg'd out alive, and was like to remain so.

15. In a Town of Enniscorthy, in Ireland, a Fire broke out, and consumed 42 Dwelling-houses, &c.

One Mr Moubray, a Farmer in East Lothian in Scotland, was thrown from his Horse, and his Foot sticking in the Stirrup, he was dragg'd some Miles, and his Brains dashed out.

26. Mr. Whitehorn, and Mr. Dukes, both Distillers at Kensington, dining together, were poyson'd by a hard Pudding which Mr Whiteborn's Wife had made for his Dinner. This Accident happen'd by the Mistake of a Girl whom she sent for beaten Ginger, which prov'd yellow Arsnick. The Men were dangerously ill, but recovered.

28. A Woman sat down by a Tree in Moorfields, cut her Throat, and died immediately.

30. A wholesale Button-maker in King-street, was flung from his Horse in the Road near the Artillery Wall by a Cart, whereby his Thigh was broke, and he died immediately.

MARRIAGES.

March 1. ROger Holland , Esq; Member of Parliament for Chippenham in Wiltshire, was married to the only Daughter of the late William Mayo, Esq; formerly Representative for the City of Hereford.

Thomas Prowse of Axbridge, in the County of Somerset, Esq; Grandson of Bp. Hooper, to Mrs. Elizabeth Sharp, Grand-daughter to the A. Bp. of that Name.

4. Mr. Dormer, a Gentleman of a large Estate in Essex, to Mrs. Anne Bradshaw of York Buildings.

The Rev. Dr. Bearcroft, Preacher to the Charter-house, and Fellow (till his Marriage) of Merton College in Oxford, to Mrs. Roberts, a Widow of about 6000l. Fortune.

6. The Earl of Strathmore, to Miss Oliphant, Daughter to Dr. Oliphant at Edingburg.

13. The only Son of the Lord James Cavendish, Uncle to the Duke of Devonshire, to Miss Chandler, a Daughter to the Bishop of Durham.

Mr. Cortes, a Cheshire Gentleman, to the Lady Delves, Relict of Sir Tho. Delves, of Doddington, Bart. and Daughter of Sir John Hubbard of Ipsley, in Warwickshire, Bart.

26. The Rev. Mr. Evans, of St. Paul's Covent Garden, to Miss Lloyd, Sister to the Rev. Mr. Lumley Lloyd, deceas'd.

29. Henry Ord, Esq; one of the Attornies of the Court of Exchequer, to Mrs. Anne Hutchinson.

30. John Jolliffe, Esq; one of the Commissioners of the Wine-Licence Office, and Nephew to Sir William Jolliffe, of Epsom, Knt. to Mrs. Mitchell, a Surrey Lady of 30000 l. Fortune.

Ecclesiastical Preferments conferr'd on the following Reverend Gentlemen.

MR. Johnson, Minister to the English Church at Amsterdam, presented by the L. Townshend to the Rectory of Raynham in Norfolk, vacant by the death of the Rev. Mr. Dean Cole.

Mr. Spateman, Rector of Great St. Bartholomew's Smithfield, presented to a Prebend in the Cathedral of Litchfield, vacant by the Promotion of the Rev. Dr. Penny, to the Deanery of the said Church.

Dr. Bearcroft. Preacher to the Charter-house, nominated by the A. Bp of Canterbury to the Vicarage of Eltham, in his Grace's Diocese.

Mr. Capper, elected Lecturer of the New Church in Bloomsbury.

Mr. John Butler, late Fellow of Bennet College in Cambridge, presented by the Bp. of Ely, to the Living of Barton, in the County of Cambridge.

Mr. Weaver, chosen Lecturer, for the united Parishes of St Margaret Pattons, and St. Gabriel Fenchurch-street, in the room of Mr. Cook, who resign'd.

Mr. John Harper, presented to the Rectory of Shawell in Leicestershire, in the room of Mr. Sherrier, deceas'd.

BANKRUPTS.

THomas Joyner, of Barkin in Essez, Maltster.

William Plucknett of St John Wapping, Surgeon and Apothecary.

Thomas Keddington, of Glensford, Suffolk, common Brewer.

Jane Rudd of the Haymarket, Middlesex, Widow Coffee-woman.

Henry Fletcher of Leeds, Yorkshire, Innholder and Vintner.

Peter Tondu, of Greek-street, Soho, Middlesex, Vintner.

William Amis, of Braintree, Essex, Cutler.

George Hilton, of Wakefield, Yorkshire, Wool Chapman.

Rich. and Tho. Woodward, of London, Goldsmiths and Bankers. The Cause of their Failure is charged on the Jews, who borrowed large Sums of them which belonged to English Merchants, with which they traded, but took no care to reimburse, according to their Engagements.

Wm Lowfield, of St. Paul's Church-Yard, London, Hosier and Glover.

* * *

Prices of Goods, &c. in MARCH, 1731.

Towards the End of the Month.

STOCKS.

S. Sea 1031⁄8

——— Bonds 5l. 12s.

——— Annu. 1085⁄8

Bank 1473⁄4

——— Circulation 8l.

——— Mil. Bank 110

India 1981⁄8

——— Bonds 6l.

Afric. 51

Royal Ass. 993⁄4

Lon. ditto 121⁄2

York Build. 251⁄2

3 per Ct. An. 961⁄2

English Copper 3l.

Welsh ditto 2l. 10s.

Lottery Tick. 7s.

S.S. Annuity, and London Assurance open April 22. Mill. Bank, the 27th. Bank Stock sells as above for the opening, with the Dividend of 3 per Cent. Million Bank Dividend of 2 per Cent will be paid April 27.

The Course of EXCHANGE.

Amst. 34 11

D. Sight 34 8

Rotter. 35 a 24 11

Antwer. 35 10

Madrid 42

Bilboa 415⁄8

Leghor. 50 a 3⁄4

Genoa 537⁄8

Hamb. 33 6

Paris Sight 317⁄8

Boud. 311⁄2

Cadiz 411⁄8

Venice 481⁄2

Dublin 111⁄8 a 11

Lisbon 5 51⁄8

Oporto 5 5

Prices of Goods at Bear-Key March 27.

Wheat 21 to 26

Rye 11 to 13

Barley 10 to 16

H. Beans 14 to 20

P. Malt 20 to 24

Oates 6 to 13

Tares 18 to 22

Pease 20 to 23

H. Pease 13 to 16

B. Malt 18 to 21

Prices of Goods, &c. in London.

Hay 2l. a load.

Coals per Chaldron 24 to 26

New Hops per Hun. 2l. 8 to 4l. 10

Old Hops 25 to 42

Rape Seed 10l. to 12l. 0s.

Lead the Fodder 19 Hun. 1 half on board, 16l. 10s.

Tin in Blocks 4l. 00s.

Ditto in Bars 4l. 02s. exclusive of 3s. per Hun. Duty.

Copper Eng. best 5l. 15s. per C.

Ditto ordinary 4l. 14s. per C.

Ditto Barbary 3l. to 4l. 00s. per C.

Iron of Bilboa 15l. 10s. per Ton

Dit. of Sweden 16l. 10s. per Ton

Tallow 36s. per C. or 5d. Fat. p. lb.

Country Tallow 3l. 17s. 0d.

Cochineal 17s. 9d. per lb.

Grocery Wares.

Rasins of the Sun 25s. 0d per C.

Ditto Malaga Frailes new

Ditto Smirna new 17s.

Ditto Alacant 15s.

Ditto Lipra new 16s. 0d.

Ditto Belvedera 18s.

Currants old none

Ditto new

Prunes French 17s.

Figs 18s.

Sugar Powder best 59s. per C.

Ditto second sort 49s. per C.

Loaf Sugar double refine 09d. Farthing per lb.

Ditto single refin. 60s. to 70s. per C.

Cinamon 7s. 9d.

Cloves 9s. 1d.

Mace 17s. 6d. per lb.

Nutmegs 8s. 7d. per lb.

Sugar Candy white 12d. to 17d.

Ditto brown 6d. Half penny per lb.

Pepper for Home consump 14 d.

Ditto for exportation 10d. H penny

Tea Bohea fine 12s. to 14s. per lb.

Ditto ordinary 10s. per lb.

Ditto Congo 12s. to 16s. per lb.

ditto Pekoe 18s. per lb.

ditto Green fine 12s. to 15s. per lb.

ditto Imperial 14s. per lb.

ditto Hyson 35s.

Drugs by the lb.

Balsam Peru 16s.

Cardamoms 3s. 4d.

Camphire refined 24s.

Crabs Eyes 22s.

Jallop 3s. 9d.

Manna 1s. 6d. a 2s. 6d.

Mastick white 4s. 6d.

Opium 10s. 00d.

Quicksilver 4d. 6d.

Rhuburb 18s. a 20s.

Sarsaparilla 3s. 00d.

Saffron Eng. 26s. 00d.

Wormseeds 4s. 6d.

Balsam Capiva 2s. 10d.

Balsam of Gilliad 14s. 00d.

Hypocacuana 5s. 6d.

Ambergreece per oz. 14s. 00d.

Wine, Brandy, and Rum.

Oporto red, per T. 62l. a 74l.

ditto white 50l.

Lisbon red none

ditto white 46l.

Sherry 29l.

Canary new 28l.

ditto old 32l.

Florence none

French red 36l. a 50l.

ditto white 20l.

Mountain malaga old 24l.

ditto new 23l.

Brandy Fr. per Gal. 6s. to 6s. 6d.

Rum of Jam. 6s. to 7s. 6d.

ditto Lew. Islands 6s. to 7s.

2EUrydice: a Tragedy, pr. 1s. 6d.

The right use of Lent, or a help to Penitents. pr. 1s.

A view of the depredations and ravages commited by the Spaniards on the British Trade, &c. pr. 1s.

Remarks on a letter to Dr. Waterland, in relation to the natural account of Languages, by Philobiblicus Cantabrigiensis.

A Sermon preached at Pinner's Hall, Jan. 31. occasioned by the Death of Tho. Hollis, Esq; by Jeremiah Hunt, D.D.

Two Discourses; wherein the Government of the Church, the Case of Subscription, and the Privileges of the Clergy, are consider'd, &c. by John Dudley, A.M. Chaplain to the Lord Bishop of Lincoln.

3. Panegyrical Essays upon the Prayer, Lord pity the people; the only words of William I. Prince of Orange, at his sudden and violent death, July 10, 1584. by a Gentleman of Middlesex.

A new Enquiry of the Earth's Motion, &c. proving the Sun to move, and not the Earth, &c. by Isaac Leach, of Alton. pr. 1s. 6d.

4. An Enquiry into the customary estates and tenants rights of those who hold lands of the Church, &c. pr. 1s. 6d.

Reasons for uniting the Church and Dissenters, &c. pr. 1s.

Conference II. of the arguments in Christianity as old as the creation reviewed and confuted; by Tho. Burnet, D.D. pr. 1s.

5. A short Apology for the Common Law, &c.

Ad virum clarissimum Dan. Turner, M.D. Epistola, morbi infrequentis historiam enarrans. pr. 6d.

Letters moral and entertaining in prose and verse. The second Part: by the Author of Friendship in death. pr. 1s. 6d.

Remarks on the Tragedy of Euridice, &c. pr. 6d.

6. The Gentleman's Magazine, No. II. for February, pr. 6d.

An Answer to the Plea for humane Reason: in vindication of the Bishop of London's second Pastoral Letter, &c. pr. 1s.

An Answer to the Letter to Dr. Waterland, concerning circumcision, &c.

The Impartial Lawyer: or the Suitors Guide, &c.

Some Thoughts on the woollen Manufactures of England.

9. A Dissertation on the nature of heresy, pr. 6d.

Irresistible evidence against Popery. by William Huddleston, a convert.

The D———l knows what. A Poem.

Stage-coach Diversion, &c. pr. 1s.

The Political State of Great Britain, for February.

A Sermon preached at the Ordination of Tho. Amory, &c. by Henry Grove.

10. A Letter to a little Doctor in Scavenger-square, occasioned by his curious Dissertation in Latin concerning a S-rr-v-r-nce over-bak'd. Address'd to the great Doctor Mr. D——— T———. pr. 6d.

11. The Compromrise: or a Dialogue between W. and P. an imitation of Horace, Book III. ode 9. &c. pr. 6d.

Miscellaneous observations of authors ancient and modern, No. III. pr. 6d.

Histoire d'Angleterre par M. de Rapin Thoyras, &c. No. 37. Vol. VII. 4.

A poem on the death of Tho. Hollis, Esq; by Sayer Rudd. pr. 6d.

The Monthly Chronicle for February.

Precedents relating to the Office of a Justice of Peace. &c. pr. 1s. 6d.

12. The Case of some English ships taken by the Spaniards, &c. pr. 6d.

13. An Answer to the Postscript of the second Part of scripture vindicated, &c. pr. 6d.

The Diests Creed, with the Free thinkers annext: by a Gent. of Camb.

Magna Britannia & Hibernia, antiqua & nova, No. 91. pr. 1s.

Advice to the Poets, a Poem by Mr. Hill, pr. 1s.

Q. Horatii Flacci carminum lib. V. recensuit, &c. Georgius Wade S.T.P.

The Orators Miscellany, No. I. by J. Henly, M.A. &c.

The History of the German Empire from Charlemagne down to the present Emperor Charles VI. in 2 vols.

15. An Appeal to the Nation: or the Case of the present Minister of Great Britain truly stated, &c. pr. 1s.

16. Lord Pole translated, or the Devil turn'd Chimney Sweeper: aBallad. pr. 6d.

Merope: A Tradgedy. Written by George Jefferys, Esq;

Historia Literaria, No. VIII. Vol. II. 2.

A Catechism: or an Instruction in the Christian religion, by way of Question and Answer, &c. pr. 6d.

17. A Letter from Ibrahim Bassaw, Grand Vizier to the late deposed Sultan Ackmet, to Don Ruperto de Poli, Knt. of the blazing star, &c. pr. 6d.

The XV and last Vol. of the History of England by M. de Rapin Thoyras; translated by N. Tindal, A.M.

An Oration on the Oppression of Jailors. pr. 6d.

11. Deism defeated, and Christianity defended, by J. Henley, M.A. pr. 6d.

19. Some short Reflections on the situation of Gibralter, and its importance to the Trade, &c. of this Kingdom. pr. 6d.

A Defence of the Plea for humane Reason, being a Reply to a Plea for Divine Revelation. pr. 1s. 6d.

20. A Sermon preached before the Sons of the Clergy, Feb. 25, 1730. by Tho. Spateman, M.A. &c.

A Treatise concerning Revolutions in Kingdoms. Translated from the Italian of Ottavio Sammarco, &c. pr. 2s. 6d.

Select Maxims: directing how to establish the government of any Court and Kingdom upon a firm and unalterable basis. pr. 6d.

Acta Regia, in four Volumes.

Poems on several occasions: by Mat. Pilkington, M.A. pr. 3s. 6d.

22. Remarks upon the Present State of the Sugar Colonies, considered, &c. pr. 6d.

The Rake's Adventures: or a Trip thro' the bills of mortality, pr. 1s.

A Course of Accademical Lectures: by John Henley, M.A. Lect. I. on university learning. p. 6d.

23. The Highland-Fair: or the Union of the Clans: an Opera.

23. The new Horse-houghing Husbandry: or an Essay on the Principles of Tillage and Vegetation, &c. pr. 6d.

24. An Essay upon Charity, &c. written by Asgill, pr. 3d.

The State of Justice impartially considered, &c. pr. 1s.

Bibliotheca Biblica, Number 23, 24, 25.

The Doctrine of the Trinity stated and vindicated, &c. by J. Gill.

The Tragedy of Tragedies; or the life and death of Tom Thumb the great.

26. The Hyp: a burlesque Poem in 5 Cantos, &c. pr. 1s.

27. The present state of Europe, &c. for February.

The Ungrateful Fair, a Tragi-comic Novel by Capt. Stephens pr. 1s.

Memoirs of the Life of that celebrated Wiltshire Poet, Mr. Steph. Duck, pr. 6d.

Observations in Gardening for APRIL, 1731

IF the weather be dry and windy, stake up all new planted trees; if that work was neglected in the preceding month, watering them well once in ten days; and fence your spired seedling Onions from the winds, for they are easily broken.

In dry weather and light earth set Kidney Beans and Rouncival Pease; plant Beans to succeed other crops; also where beans have been set too thick you may cut down every other row within three inches of the roots and they will produce a very good after-crop when the others are gone. Now is the best time in the whole year to plant cuttings or slips of Rosemary, and Lavender, especially after rain; and if omited in the last month we may yet plant slips of Thyme, Sage, Rue, &c.

Sow Cabbage-Lettuce to succeed those sown in the former months. And now you are to sow Purslain and Sellery in the natural ground, or upon some decay'd hot-bed, as a supply when that is spent that was sown in March.

The ground is now in good order to receive the seeds of Thyme and such Aromatick Herbs: And this work should not be delay'd longer than the last week in this month.

Note, All small feeds must be sown shallow in the earth, and the larger kinds deeper in proportion, and where the ground is light and sandy every sort must be sown deeper than in heavy soils.

Towards the end hough Carrots, Parsnips, and Onions, leaving the first two about five or six inches distant, and the latter about three or four.

Sow new Spanish Chardoons in the natural ground for a second crop, making holes for the seeds five or fix foot distance, put four or five seeds in each hole, and when they are come up, leave growing only one strong plant in a hole for blanching.

Trees being in their bloom little is to be done to them in this month; but you are now to rub off such young shoots of new planted trees against walls as push directly forward, leaving none but those that shoot side ways to form the beauty of the tree.

Remove all suckers from Fig-trees which are now very apt to send forth very plentifully.

What Apples remain to be grafted may be compleated in this month, which is the best time for grafting betwixt the bark and the wood, because the sap stirs freely and suffers them to part.

Keep your garden clean; digging borders half spit deep, and stirring the earth about old mural trees, is a very good culture and the most effectual method to destroy the weeds.

We may continue to make plantations of Strawberries till the middle of the month, placing the plants about eight or ten inches apart.

If the weather be moist it is yet not too late to make layers of Jessamine, Honeysuckles, Roses, and such like shrubs.

An Alphabetical List of Fairs to the 12th of May, continued from our last, the moveable Fairs being in this Character, and reduced to the Days of the Month.

The Fairs in APRIL, 1731.

14Acton, Gloucsh.

16 Ampthil, Bedfsh.

21 Ashil, Somsh.

Affington, Dev. Every Wednesday in Quarter-Session Week.

19 Abridge, Essex

13 Bewdley, Worcsh.

13 Bridstock

13 Bilston

13 Bury, Lancsh,

13 Beesly, Gloucsh.

13, 16. Bruton, Somsh.

16 Bilborough, Notsh.

26 Bicklesworth, Bucks

21 Beverley, Yorksh. all Rogation Week

25 Buckingham

25 Bracknel, Berksh.

25 Bradnidge, Devsh.

27 Bosworth, Leicsh.

30 Beverley Yorksh.

16 Bury, Lancsh.

19 Bedington, Surry

20 Brailers

16 Budley, Devsh.

20 Basingdowns, Hants.

16 Burnel

23 Castlecomb, Wiltsh.

23 Chedder, Somsh,

23 Chagford Devsh.

23 Cowbridge, Glamsh.

23 Charing, Kent

23 Cliffe, Northash,

26 Chaley, Devsh.

26 Chipping norton, Oxf.

26 Caln, Wiltsh,

26 Cliffe, Sussex

20 Coventry, Warwicksh.

20 Chingar

21 Cricklade, Wiltsh.

16 Chapelrow, Berksh.

14 Carlile, Cumb.

21 Colebrook, Bucks

9 Cranbrook, Kent

20 Chudleigh, Devsh.

20 Cirencester, Gloucsh.

14 Caerleon, Monmsh.

12 Downton, Wiltsh.

25 Dursley, Gloucsh.

25 Dunmow, Essex

19 Dryfield, Yorksh.

20 Daventry, Northsh.

20 Dorchester, Oxfordsh.

16 Dolidge, Devsh.

19 Darlington, Durham, and so every Fortnight after till Christmas.

13 Earlton, Herefsh.

16 St. Edmundsbury, Suff.

26 Evesham, Worcsh.

16 Endfield, Mid.

16 Eastgrinstead, Sussex

23 Frampton, Dorcsh.

23 Gravesend, Kent

16, 23 Guilford, Surrey

23 Great-terrington Dev.

19 Gainsborough, Linsh.

16 Heldzary, Devsh.

23 Haley, Berksh.

23 Harbin, Norfolk

23 Harlow-bush. Hertsh.

23 Heningham, Essex

23 Hilborough

19 Hilmarton, Wiltsh.

26 Hitchin, Hartsh.

21 Hartland Devsh.

16 Hatfield, Hartfsh.

16 Huntington

16 Hickfield, Hampsh.

26 Hammock

16, 23 Ipswich, Suffolk

25 Ivingo, Bucks

16 St. Ives, Cornwall

23 Kirton, Lincsh.

23 Kellington, Cornwall

30 Kerton, Devsh.

15 Kettering, Northsh.

10 Kemsing

14 Kington, Herefsh.

23 Luton Bedfsh.

16, 23 Langner.

14 Lanwilling, Montgsh.

16 Lancarven

17 Malmesbury, Wiltsh.

23 Manhemot, Cornw.

23 Modbury, Devsh.

25 Mountecut Somsh.

25 Maidenbradley, Wilts.

20 Milverton, Som.

26 Malton Wiltsh.

16 Malling Kent

19 Michaeldean, Gloucsh.

21 Marsgate

16 Midsummer-Norton, Somsh.

16 Margam, Glamsh.

22 Newport-pagnel Bucks

16 23, Nutley, Sussex

16 Norse, Devsh.

20 Northfleet, Kent

20 Northstreet

13 Orleton, Westm.

23 Overton, Hampsh.

27 Okeham, Rutland

16 Oxford

19 Oulney, Bucks

15 Pensford, Somersh.

27 Philips-norton, Som.

10, 23 St. Pombs Cornw.

20 Pedleton, Dorset.

28 Redruth, Cornwall

19 Rumsey, Hertfsh.

16 Risborough, Bucks

20 Stonehouse, Gloucsh.

22 Stafford

23 Spasser, Herefordsh.

23 Sawbridgeworth Harts

25 Stowgummer Somsh.

25 Swaley

25 Southampton

25 Stokeunderham Somsh

28 Soham, Cambridgsh.

30 Stanes, Middlesex

29 Sudbury Suffolk

13 Somerton, Sommersetsh.

24 Stocksley, Yorksh.

16 Stockenham, Devnsh.

16 Saltwich Worcestersh.

27 Selbey Yorksh.

15 Sudminster, Essex

20 Sandbach, Cheshire

24 Skipton upon Craven, Yorkshire

21 Southall, Middlesex

12 Sosing

23 Tamworth, Staff.

25 Tangley, Hamp.

25 Tavestock, Dev.

25 Tregony, Cornwall

25 Tenbury, Worcesh.

25 Treganethaw Cornw.

16 Tenderden Kent

19 Thornbury, Gloucsh.

20 Thorncomb, Devnsh.

16 St. Tossels, Cornwall

25 Uttoxeter, Staffordsh.

16 Uscum, Devonshire

22 Westram, Kent

23 Wilton, Wiltsh.

23 Wotton-basset, Som.

23 Woodley

23 Wortham, Gloucsh.

25 Winchcomb, ib.

25 West-Lowe, Cornwall

25 Wallingford, Berksh.

21 Wellingborough, North.

15 Wallingford, Bersh.

21 Waltham upon Thames, Surry

16 Winborn, Dorsh.

21 Witheridge, Devonsh.

30 Windsor, Berkshire

Fairs in MAY.

1 Andover, Hampshire

3 Arundel, Sussex

3 Ashborn-Peak, Derb.

3 Abergavenny, Monsh.

5 Ashford, Kent

6 Amesbury, Wiltshire

11 Appleshaw, Hampsh.

1 Blackborn, Lancsh.

1 Brickhill, Bucks

1 Blackheath, Kent

1 Blackney, Gloucsh.

2 Bromyard, Hereforsh.

3 Bala, Merionetsh.

3 Berkeley, Gloucsh.

3 Broadcliffe, Devsh.

3 Brent, ib.

3 Bromsgrove, Worcsh.

3 Backinton, Devsh.

7 Bath, Somersetshire

7 Beverley

12 Bagborough ibid

1 Congleton, Cheshire

1 Caerleon Monmsh.

1 Corfe-castle, Dorsetsh

1 Castle-carey, Somersh.

1 Colnampton, Devonsh.

1 Chelmsford, Essex

1 Crickhowel Brecksh.

2 Chapelheath, Glamsh

3 Chertsey, Surry

3 Chard, Somersetshire

3 Church-stretton Shrop.

3 Clifton, Bedfordshire

3 Crouch, Essex

3 Cowbridge, Glamorsh

4 Chesterfield, Derbysh.

4 Capel-in-frith, ibid

4 Chatham, Kent

6 Chippenham, Wiltsh.

10 Combftock, Devonsh.

3 Derris, Gloucestersh.

3 Denbigh

11 Dunstable, Bedford.

11 Endfield,

1 Ewel, Surry

1 Evershot, Dorsetshire

3 Elstow, Bedfordshire

1 Falkingham, Lincsh.

1 Fowey, Cornwall

4 Fordham, Essex

10 Fringe, Norfolk

1 Graies, Essex

2 Greenstreet

1 Haveril, Essex

1 Hartford

1 Hannye, Essex

3 Henningham, Essex

3 Holway, Somersetsh.

3 Huthersfield, Yorksh.

3 Heytesbury, Wiltsh.

3 Highbeckington Dev.

4 Hay, Brecknockshire

7 Hanslop, Bucks

7 Heytesbury, Wilts.

10 Hatherley, Devonsh.

1 Kirmar

6 Knighton, Radnorsh.

1 Langborn, Berkshire

1 Limington, Hampsh.

1 Ledbury, Herefordsh.

1 Leighton, Bedfordsh.

1 Layton-buzzard Bucks

Leciester

1 Litchfield, Staffordsh

1 Lynfield, Sussex

1 Lowth, Lincolnshire

1 Lantrissent, Glamsh

1 Lexfield, Suffolk

2 Lemster, Hereford.

2 Lime, Dorsetshire

1 Milbrook, Cornwall

1 Maidstone, Kent

2 Myden, Glamorgansh

3 Mounton

3 Meethyr

3 Machynleth, Montsh

6 Mere, Wiltshire

10 Mayfield Sussex

1 North-petherton, Somersetshire

3 Nuneaton, Warwsh.

7 Newton, Lancashire

1 Oswestry, Shropshire

3 Ockington, Devonsh

3 Oxford

1 Pembridge, Somersh.

1 Penryn, Cornwall

1 Philipsnorton, Somsh

3 Pulhelly, Carnavsh.

1 Rowland castle Berks

1 Rippon Yorkshire

1 Reading Berkshire

3 Radsdale, Lancashire

3 Ramsbury, Wiltshire

1 St. Stephen, Cornwall

1 Stocknail

1 Sturmister Dorsetshire

1 Sherton, Wiltshire

1 Stroudwater, Gloush

1 Stow in the wold, ib

1 Stanstead Hartfordsh.

1 Stratford on avon

3 Stowgussy, Somersh

8 Swansey, Glamorgansh

1 Totnes, Devonshire

1 Tuxford in the Clay

1 Thetford, Norfolk

3 Titchfield, Hampshire

3 Tregony, Cornwall

3 Tiddeswall

3 Tewkesbury, Gloucsh

7 Thunderly

9 Tockington

12 Thorock Graies, Essex

1 Usk, Monmouth.

1 Warbridge, Cornwall

1 Wilscomb, Somersh.

1 Warwick

1 Wendover, Bucks

2 Wirksworth, Derbsh.

2 Woolbridge, Dors-sh.

3, 9 Wells, Somersetshire

3 Witheridge, Devonsh.

3 Waltham-abby, Essex

3 Woodbridge, Suffolk

8 Wemerly, Cornwall

8 Wickham, Hampsh.

N. B. If any Fair is mistaken, the Author, will upon Information given rectify it in the Progress of this Work.

