The Gentleman's Magazine, Volume 1 — May, 1731

Exported from Wikisource on May 13, 2026

* * *

THE

Gentleman's Magazine:

Or, TRADER's

Monthly Intelligencer.

* * *

Numb. V. for MAY, 1731.

* * *

CONTAINING,

I. A View of the Weekly Essays and Controversies, viz. Of Self-Opinion, Labour, Recreation, Gaming, Idleness, Patriotism, Welsh Laws and Customs, Bankrupts, Sheriffs Officers, Dress, Pride, Tutors, and Pupils, Remarks of the Craftsman against K. Charles I. and his Opponents; of the dignify'd Clergy; Parties; Sir Isaac Newton's Creed; Challenge to the Craftsman: On Conversation; Impudence of Mr. H———y; Q. Anne's Ministry; Wood's Project, &c.

II. Monumental Inscription at Blenheim; Speaker and Ks Speech; Reasons for not passing the Wool and Bankrupt Bills; Substance of the English Law, and Naturalization Bills; of the Pension Bill and Protests, the National Debt and yearly Expence, Produce of the Land-Tax and Deficiencies.

III. Domestic Occurrences, Births, Deaths, Marriages, Preferments, Burials and Christenings in London.

IV. Prices of Goods, Grain and Stocks, a List of Bankrupts.

V. Malefactors executed.

VI. Foreign Affairs.

VII. Remarkable Casualties, and Occurrences.

VIII. Books, &c. publish'd.

IX. Observations in Gardening, and a List of Fairs for the Season.

X. A Table of Contents.

* * *

By SYLVANUS URBAN of Aldermanbury, Gent.

* * *

Prodesse & Delectare.

* * *

The Second Edition.

* * *

CONTENTS

Of Numb. V.

THE monumental Inscription of Blenheim-House 189, 199, 191

Self Opinion 192

Labour and Recreation ib.

Pythagoras's maxim ib.

Recreation of several great men 193

Plato's original of gaming ib.

Chess, by whom invented ib.

Quotations from a pamphlet of Eustace Budgel, Esq; ib.

Remarks on the Craftsman 194

The history of Patriotism ib.

Marlbrough, Godolphin, and Bol—ke ib.

Welsh Laws and Language their Antiquity ib.

On Bankrupts 195

K. James I. his management of parties ib.

Extravagance in dress 196

A story of a Persian Nobleman ib.

Academical education ib.

Behaviour of the dignify'd Clergy 197

On Conversation 198

Impudence, or Mr. Henley pictur'd ib.

Tory measures in Q. Anne's Reign 199

Challenge to the Craftsman ib.

K. James I. abus'd in his Treaties 200

Measures contributing to K. Charles I. his ruin ib.

Observations on Mr. Oldcastle's Remarks upon K. James's Conduct 201

A Dissertation on Waitwell Longhead's Letter on the conduct of the Ministry ib.

The Spring describ'd 202

Sir Isaac Newton's Creed ib.

Whig measures in Q. Anne's Reign justify'd from the practice of the Tories ib.

Osborne's farewel to Oldcastle 205

On Impertinence ib.

Several Instances of it ib.

Of W. P. Esq; and Ld B———ke 206

Disadvantage of business ib.

E. Godolphin's Letter to Q. Anne 207

Ld Oxford's Letter to ditto ib.

Sir John Falstaff compared with modern patriots ib.

Sincerity and Friendship 208

The dep. Lieutenants of the militia in Middlesex their petition to the D. of Newcastle ib.

Treaty of peace between Caleb D'anvers Esq; and Rupert Lyn, Esq; 209

Remarks on two Characters in the Craftsman 210

The King's Speech ib.

Acts passed 211

The Speaker's Speech 212

Of the Starch Act ib.

Of the Bankrupt Bill ib.

Substance of the naturalizing act ib.

Of the act for englishing Law proceedings 213

Debates thereon ib.

Of the Irish wool bill 214

Letter upon Pension bill ib.

Of the Lords protest about it ib.

Sum of the national debt, yearly produce of the land Tax and Expence 215

Of the Hessian Troops ib.

Of Mr. Wood's Iron Project ib.

Of the Penny Post Act ib.

Domestic Occurrences 214, 217, 218

List of the squadron fitted out, and the Commanders 217

The Commissioners of the Lottery ib.

Sentence on Sir Peter Stranger and the Lady Lawley 218

Births, and Deaths, 220

Promotions, 221

Ecclesiastical Preferments 222

Casualties, marriages, bankrupts 223

Affairs in Carolina, New-England, Jamaica, and Barbadoes 219

Foreign Affairs and Occurrences 224

Dutch Remarks on the Peace ib.

Letter from Utrecht ib.

Second Revolt at Constantinople 225

Relation of a dreadful Earthquake ib.

Fairs in June and July 226, 227

Books and Pamphlets published 228-9

Observations in Gardening 230

Monthly bill of mortality 230

Prices of Goods and Stocks ib.

* * *

* * *

* * *

THE

Gentleman's Magazine:

MAY, 1731.

* * *

A View of the Weekly ESSAYS in this Month.

Craftsman, Saturday April 1.

The Monumental Inscription, &c.

The Castle of Blenheim was founded by Queen ANNE, In the fourth Year of her Reign, in the Year of the Christian Æra 1705; a Monument design'd to perpetuate the Memory of the signal Victory obtain’d over the French and Bavarians near the Village of Blenheim, on the Banks of the Danube, by JOHN Duke of MARLBOROUGH; the Hero not only of his Nation, but his Age; whose Glory was equal in the Council and in the Field; who by Wisdom, Justice, Candor and Address, reconciled various, and even opposite Interests; acquir’d an Influence, which no Rank, or Authority can give, nor any Force but that of superior Virtue; became the fixed important Center, which united in one common Cause the principal States of Europe; who by military Knowledge, and irresistible Valour, in a long Series of uninterrupted Triumphs, broke the Power of France, when raised the highest, when exerted the most; rescued the Empire from Desolation; asserted and confirmed the Liberties of Europe.

PHILIP, a Grandson of the House of France, united to the Interests, directed by the Policy, supported by the Arms of that Crown, was placed on the Throne of Spain. King WILLIAM the Third beheld this formidable Union of two great, and once rival, Monarchies. At the end of a Life spent in defending the Liberties of Europe, he saw them in their greatest danger. He provided for their Security in the most effectual manner. He took the Duke of MARLBOROUGH into his Service.

Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the States General of the United Provinces.] The Duke contracted several Alliances before the Death of King WILLIAM. He confirmed and improved these. He contracted others, after the Accession of Queen ANNE; and re-united the Confederacy, which had been dissolved at the End of a former War, in a stricter and firmer League.

Captain General and Commander in Chief of the Forces of Great Britain.] The Duke led to the Field the Army of the Allies. He took, with surprising Rapidity Venlo, Ruremonde, Stevenswaert, Liege. He extended and secured the Frontiers of the Dutch. The Enemies, whom he found insulting at the Gates of Nimeghen, were driven to seek for Shelter behind their Lines. He forced Bonne, Huy, Limburg in another Campaign. He opened the Communication of the Rhine, as well as the Maes. He added all the Country between these Rivers to his former Conquests. The Arms of France favour'd by the Defection of the Elector of Bavaria, had penetrated into the Heart of the Empire. This mighty Body lay exposed to immediate Ruin. In that memorable Crisis, the Duke of MARLBOROUGH led his Troops with unexampled Celerity, Secrecy, Order, from the Ocean to the Danube. He saw; he attacked; nor stopped, but to conquer the Enemy. He forced the Bavarians, sustained by the French, in their strong Intrenchments at Schellenberg. He passed the Danube. A second royal Army composed of the best Troops of France, was sent to reinforce the first. That of the Confederates was divided. With one part of it the Siege of Ingolstadt was carried on. With the other the Duke gave Battle to the united strength of France and Bavaria. On the 2d Day of August 1704, he gain'd a more glorious Victory than the History of any Age can boast. The Heaps of Slain were dreadful Proofs of his Valour. A Marshal of France, whole Legions of French his Prisoners, proclaim'd his Mercy. Bavaria was subdued, Ratisbon, Augusbourg, Ulm, Meninghen, all the Usurpations of the Enemy, were recover'd. The Liberty of the Diet, the Peace of the Empire were restor'd. From the Danube, the Duke turn'd his victorious Arms towards the Rhine and the Moselle. Landau, Treves, Tracrbath, were taken. In the Course of one Campaign the very Nature of the War was chang'd. The Invaders of other States were reduced to defend their own. The Frontier of France was exposed in its weakest Part to the Efforts of the Allies.

That he might improve this Advantage, that he might push the Sum of Things to a speedy Decision, the Duke of MARLBOROUGH led his Troops early in the following Year once more to the Moselle. They, whom he had sav'd a few Months before, neglected to second him now. They, who might have been his Companions in Conquest, refused to join him, When he saw the generous Designs he had form'd frustrated by private Interest, by Pique, by Jealousy, he return'd with speed to the Maes. He return'd; and Fortune and Victory turn'd with him. Liege was reliev'd; Huy re-taken; the French, who had press'd the Army of the States-General with superior Numbers, retired behind Intrenchments, which they deemed impregnable. The Duke forc'd these Intrenchments, with inconsiderable Loss, on the seventh Day of July 1705. He defeated a great part of the Army, which defended them. The rest escaped by a precipitate Retreat. If Advantages proportionable to this Success were not immediately obtained, let the Failure be ascribed to that Misfortune, which attends most Confederacies; a Division of Opinions, where one alone should judge; a Division of Powers, where one alone should command. The Disappointment it self did Honour to the Duke. It became the Wonder of Mankind how he could do so much under those Restraints, which had hindred him from doing more.

Powers more absolute were given him afterwards. The encrease of his Powers multiplied his Victories. At the opening of the next Campaign, when all his Army was not assembled, when it was hardly known that he had taken the Field, the Noise of his Triumphs was heard over Europe. On the 12th of May 1706, he attack'd the French at Ramellies. In the space of two Hours their whole Army was put to Flight. The Vigour and Conduct with which he improv'd his Success, were equal to those with which he gain'd it. Louvain, Brussels, Molines, Liere, Ghent, Oudenard, Antwerp, Damme, Bruges, Courtray surrender'd, Ostend, Menin, Dendermond, Aeth were taken. Brabant and Flanders were recovered. Places, which have resisted the greatest Generals for Months, for Years; Provinces disputed for Ages, were the Conquests of a Summer. Nor was the Duke content to triumph alone. Solicitous for the general Interest, his Care extended to the remotest Scenes of the War. He chose to lessen his own Army, that he might enable the Leaders of other Armies to conquer. To this it must be ascribed that Turin was relieved, the Duke of Savoy re-instated; the French driven with Confusion out of Italy.

These Victories gave the Allies an Opportunity of carrying the War on every Side into the Dominions of France. But she continued to enjoy a kind of peaceful Neutrality in Germany. From Italy she was once alarmed, and had no more to fear. The entire Reduction of this Power, whose Ambition had caused, whose Strength supported the War, seemed reserved for him alone, who had so triumphantly began the glorious Work.

The Barrier of France, on the side of the Low Countries, had been forming for more than half a Century. What Art, Power, Expence could do, had been done to render it impenetrable. Yet here she was most exposed; for here the Duke of MARLBOROUGH threatened to attack her.

To cover what they had gained by Surprize, or had been yielded to them by Treachery, the French march'd to the Banks of the Schelde. At their Head were the Princes of the Blood, and their most fortunate General, the Duke of Vendosine. Thus commanded, thus posted, they hoped to check the Victor in his course. Vain were their Hopes. The Duke of MARLBOROUGH passed the River in their sight. He defeated their whole Army. The Approach of Night conceal'd, the Proximity of Ghent favour'd their Flight. They neglected nothing to repair their Loss, to defend their Frontier, New Generals, new Armies appear'd in the Netherlands. All contributed to enhance the Glory, none were able to retard the Progress of the Confederate Arms.

Lisse, the Bulwark of this Barrier, was besieged. A numerous Garrison, and a Marshal of France defended the Place. Prince Eugene of Savoy commanded the Duke of MARLBOROUGH cover'd and sustain'd the Siege. The Rivers were seized, and the Communication with Holland interrupted. The Duke opened new Communications with great Labour, and much greater Art. Through Countries over-run by the Enemy, the necessary Convoys arriv'd in safety. One alone was attack'd. The Troops which attacked, were beat. The Defence of Lisse was animated by assurances of Relief.

The French assembled all their Force. They march'd towards the Town. The Duke of MARLBOROUGH offered them Battle, without suspending the Siege. They abandon'd the Enterprize. They came to save the Town. They were Spectators of its Fall.

From this Conquest the Duke hastened to others. The Posts taken by the Enemy on the Schelde, were surpriz'd. That River was pass'd the second time; and, notwithstanding the great Preparations made to prevent it, without opposition.

Brussels besieg'd by the Elector of Bavaria, was relieved. Ghent surrender'd to the Duke in the middle of a Winter remarkably severe. An Army, little inferior to his own, marched out of the Place.

As soon as the Season of the Year permitted him to open another Campaign, the Duke besieg'd and took Tournay. He invested Mons. Near this City the French Army, covered by thick Woods, defended by treble Intrenchments, waited to molest, nor presumed to offer Battle. Even this was not attempted by them with Impunity. On the last Day of August 1709, the Duke attack'd them in their Camp. All was employ'd, nothing avail'd against the Resolution of such a General, against the Fury of such Troops. The Battle was bloody: The Event decisive. The Woods were pierced. The Fortifications trampled down. The Enemy fled. The Town was taken. Doway, Bechune, Air, St. Venant, Bouchain underwent the same Fate in two succeeding Years. Their vigorous Resistance could not save them. The Army of France durst not attempt to relieve them. It seem'd reserv'd to defend the Capital of the Monarchy.

The Project of this extreme Distress was neither distant, nor dubious. The French acknowledged their Conqueror, and sued for Peace.

These are the Actions of the Duke of MARLBOROUGH, performed in the compass of few Years, sufficient to adorn the Annals of Ages: The Admiration of other Nations will be conveyed to latest Posterity, in the Histories even of the Enemies of Britain.

The Sense, which the British Nation had of his transcendent merit, was expressed in the most solemn, most effectual, most durable manner.

The Acts of Parliament, inscribed on this Pillar shall stand as long as the British Name and Language last, Illustrious Monuments of MARLBOROUGH's Glory and of BRITAIN's Gratitude.

Universal Spectator, Sat. May 1. No. 134.

Of Self-Opinion.

T

here is no Body, he says, however worthless and insignificant, but sets an infinite Value on himself. Self-Love and Pride conspire to conceal our Imperfections from us; hence it is that so many complain of Fortune's Unkindness, without considering their own too little Merit; even those who envy the Wealth and Splendor of their Superiors, are perfectly easy and satisfied with their own share of goodness and understanding.

This Self-Opinion, he observes, prevents our improving in Virtue and Wisdom, and lays us open to Flattery and is the Source of Impertinence, Affectation, Haughtiness, Obstinacy, and other Follies; that a pretty Woman with a Circle of Admirers, and a great Man with his train of obsequious Dependants, are instances of this.

Whoever therefore would be truly Valued, must pass a Self-Examination; for nothing makes a man more contemptible, than to assume a Merit he has no Right to. This makes Debauchees set up for preachers of morality, and harmless Country Girls affect the study'd Airs of designing Jilts.

While this Self-conceit is confin'd to Conversation and Behaviour, he says, it only renders us ridiculous; but when it influences the management of our Fortunes and the Conduct of Life, it exposes us to Ruin. Thus Portico, to be thought a Master in Architects, squanders away in Building what should maintain his starving Family; Froth sets up an Equipage he can't support; and Seemwel keeps open house, tho' he is dunn'd for the Bread he eats.

As Self-Love puffs up a fond Conceit of our own Excellencies, so an over earnest Desire of appearing happy to others, often makes us miserable. This, he says, proceeds from the false Idea we form of happiness, which we are too apt to place in the gifts of Fortune, in the room of Health, Wisdom and Content. Such wrong Notions he remarks, are the Causes of Extravagance and empty Ostentation, but yet are beneficial, when kept under the check of Reason, and excite Mankind to noble and generous Actions, it is the grand Motive to Learning, Generosity, Valour, Wisdom and Virtue, amongst the Men, nor does a little contribute to preserve the Characters of Women unblameable. He does not therefore wish to root it out of humane Nature, but that we may enjoy the good of it, void of those pernicious Qualities, which impair the Understanding, and make us Fools or Coxcombs.

Reads Journal Sat. May 1.

Of Labour and Recreation.

Pythagoras's maxim was, says our Author, that we may soften the Cares of Life, but not lay 'em down. That is, that Labour and Recreation ought to be kept in a regular Succession. The Earth it self would fail and be burnt up, if there were no remission from Heat; or soon become desolate and barren, if it had no rest.

Observes, that Men the most remarkable for Learning and Wisdom, have indulg’d themselves in Recreations. That Cyrus and Alexander admir’d Hunting; Cicero would play like a Kitten. Socrates would gallop about with Children upon a Hobby-Horse; Plato would turn Pedlar; Posidonius the Stoick Philosopher, under the most violent Paroxisms of the Gout, would only smile and fay, O Pain! all thy obliging services are to no purpose; thou mayst be a little troublesome, but I will never own thee for an Evil.

Every Man has his favourite Pastime; some delight in luxurious Living, others in Dice and Gaming. Plato, he says, remarks, that those destructive Games were invented by a certain Devil call’d Theuth, who afterwards instructed Thamus, King of Ægypt, in the use and manner of Play. Aristotle treats gamesters as thieves, pick pockets, and robbers.

Cards he mentions, as another Diversion, but as at present manag’d, is rather a Trade than an Amusement, and Covetousness the Motive of Play.

The Chace, which was an elegant Refreshment to our Forefathers, is so degenerated, that their Successors seem as if they thought they were born for no other purpose.

Our Author, whose Pleasure is in Books, having laid in a large Stock of Pamphlets, and made a Collection of the worst of them, has piled ’em up in a heap, and exercises himself an hour every day in threshing ’em with a Flail.

Admires the Game of Chess, because it both diverts and instructs; ascribes the Invention of it to one Xerxes, a Statesman, who about the Year of the World 3635, used it as a political Engine to instruct his Master, whom it was not safe to admonish another way.

Cyrus Minor, King of Persia, was as glorious in Virtue as Power, yet delighted himself in Gardening and Orchards of his own planting.

By Draco's Laws, idleness was punish’d with death.

Cyrus, by an Edict, forbid the Exercise of any but ludicrous Occupations, whereby that warlike Nation was so debilitated through Effeminacy, Ease and Luxury, that a Regiment would have put 50,000 of them to flight.

Fogs Journal, May 1. No. 103.

Entertains his Reader with Quotations of a Pamphlet just publish’d, entitled, A Letter from Eustace Budgel, to his Excellency Mr. Ulrick D’ypres, in Answer to his Excellency’s two Letters lately publish’d in the Daily Courant.

Who this Ulrick D’ypres is, he says he cannot tell, but has read of one Ulrick, a low black-guard Fellow, that followed the Court, was kept to be laugh’d at, and had a patent, at least a privilege of being sawcy.

Whether this be the same Ulrick, or another, who, from a similitude of Parts, Manners and Behaviour, has adopted his Name, will not determine.

Proceeds to acquaint us, that the Author has given us the History of one Xunchi, first Minister in the Kingdom of Tonquin, situate on the Borders of China, describes him as a Man of low and ordinary Parts, who made himself remarkable for his Hatred to Men of Parts and Learning; and because he would not be eclipsed, he introduced none into publick Affairs, but the most insignificant Persons he could find; so that the Person he sent to the polite Court of the Emperor of China, was a meer Buffoon, by which means Tonquin was over-reach’d in all her Negotiations, which occasioned Murmurs and Discontents among the People of Tonquin.

He then recites several Passages out of the said pamphlet; but as they contain no more than illustrations of the same Argument, we think it useless to repeat them.

London Journal, May 1. No. 624.

T

he Craftsman having in his Paper of April 24, arrogated to himself the Merit of influencing all the Affairs of Europe, of correcting the Blunders of the Ministry; and of settling the present happy Situation of Affairs by the Light he has held forth, and by the Measures he has recommended; Mr. Osborne banters him by retorting his own Words; and then proceeds to answer some of his Arguments, one of which was, That if the present Measures are right, then all the former are wrong; as if because the Measures are different, therefore they must be wrong.

A Quere put by the Craftsman, whether we could not have been reconciled to the Emperor long ago, on the same Terms we are now? Osborne answers in the Negative; because things were not ripe for it.

To Mr. Osborne's Letter is added a Postscript to this effect, That in the last Craftsman there are these Words, viz. We meant in writing that passage (about the Dependency of Parliaments upon the Crown) to reflect on a scandalous Doctrine propagated in a Pamphlet entitled Clodius and Cicero. Mr. Osborne having read over that Pamphlet, affirms, that there is not a word in it about Dependency, or Independency of Parliaments.

* * *

The Free Briton, Thursday May 6. No. 65.

The History of Patriotism continued.

Having in his former Papers made some Reflections on the Merits and Injuries of an illustrious Ministry, the Glory and the ill Treatment of the D. of Marlborough and the E. of Godolphin, proceeds in this to show, that the same ambitious Demagogues are now reviving the Practice of their wicked Arts, by employing them against the present Administration.

The Reason of his describing the ill Usage of the D. of Marlborough, he says, is to show, that those who could thus inhumanly treat the D. of Marlborough, would not scruple to abuse and injure a Minister of humbler Fame, formed to rise by peaceful Arts and in the lower Rank of Glory.

Makes some Reflections on the Author of the Craftsman, for making his Court to the Duke's Family, now he is dead, whom they envy'd and defam'd when living.

As to saying it would have been ridiculous to challenge the D.'s Friends to have particularized any one Service he had done his Country; in order to suggest, that a certain Gentleman now in Power, hath not the same Merits to produce, is nothing to the purpose. For, if success in War is the only Mark of Merit, the E. of Godolphin was an unprofitable Servant to the Publick.

Concludes with observing, that as no monumental Marble or Inscriptions can add to Marlborough's Glory, so no Recitals of those Inscriptions in the Craftsman can take away from B—l—ke's Ingratitude.

The Grub-street Journal, May 6.

Of Welch Customs and Laws.

Inserts a Letter wrote by a Welshman, giving an Account of the ancient Laws and Language of his Country. Says, that Dr. Wotton collected the Laws of their good King Hoel into a Body, which he entitled, Cysreithjeu Hywel Dda ac craill; seu Leges Wallicæ Ecclesiasticæ & Civiles Hoeli Boni, &c. This King Hoel he supposes to have lived about 800 Years ago.

The Book informs us, that one of the chief Officers to the King's Court, was the Foot-scratcher, who held the King's Feet in his Lap from Dinner till bed time, and scratch'd him; he supposes it also a Scotch Custom, which occasion'd K. James I. to say, That Scratching for the Itch was too great a pleasure for a Subject.

The third Officer was the Yeoman of the Cowdung, who look’d after the King’s Cattle, and had the Honour of sleeping in the Buttery.

The fifth Honour was given to the Porter, who had the Milt or Gut of every Animal kill’d for the Kitchen, as a Perquisite. He was allow’d also what was left of the King’s tosted Cheese. Cheese was esteemed a great Rarity, as appears from the great Value set on a Cat. This Animal, as soon as it could catch Mice, was valued at four Pence, the price of a Goat. The Qualities of a good Cat were, she must have good Ears, Eyes, Teeth, Claws and Tail, be a good Mouser, and not eat her Kittens. If any one kill’d a Cat, he was fined so much Wheat, as the Cat being hung up by the tail, with her Head touching an even Floor, would, heap’d about her, reach to the tip of her Tail. The Porter was likewise employ’d in providing Straw for the King’s Bed; this was a little troublesome, because the King had clean Straw every Night.

The Royal Palace was thatch’d, and sustain’d by five Columns or Posts. The penalty of burning down one of these Posts was 40 d. The Roof was valued at 80 d. The Palace of a Nobleman was valued at half the price, &c.

The London Journal, Sat. May 8. No. 615.

On Bankrupts.

There having been a Bill depending in Parliament about Bankrupts, Mr. Osborne takes occasion to treat of that Subject.

The Bulk of Bankrupts are, he says, such as over-trade themselves, or spend in Luxury and Extravagance more than their Profits or Income; Gamesters and Stock-jobbers; lastly, those that get all the Credit they can, with a design to cheat their Creditors.

Proposes, that all Bankrupts should produce their Books, which if they can’t do, to be taken for granted they have destroy’d their Books to conceal ill Management or Roguery, and ought to be severely punished.

Hence he takes occasion to mention the Case of the Woodwards, whose Insolvency has been more calamitous to the Merchants and Traders in this City, than any Accident since the fatal Year 1720.

Recommends it to the Assignees to mitigate the Hardships of Creditors by hastening a Dividend, and in the mean time to acquaint them what they may reasonably expect for their Debts, that none may be induced to sell their Interest for less than the Value, or purchase that of others for more than it is worth.

The Craftsman, Saturday, May 8, No. 253.

Remarks on the History of England.

Takes notice, that in their Paper of March 18. they spoke of the State of Parties at the Accession of K. James, now makes observations on his Management of them.

In the first Month of his Reign, our Author says, he exposed himself to the shedding of Blood, by espousing the Passions of a Party; instances in Grey, Cobham and Raleigh.

Observes there were no Parties at this Time in the Nation, but what were founded on religious Differences; and it was Queen Elizabeth's Policy to keep all Parties within those Bounds. She thought that Consciences ought not to be forc’d, but won by Truth, Time, Instruction and Perswasion, and that causes of Conscience lose their Nature, when they exceed their Bounds and grow Matter of Faction.

Opposite to this was the Conduct of K. James; who, in haste to show his Parts, held a Conference between the Bishops and the puritan Ministers at Hampton-Court, quickly after his Accession; where he made himself a Principal in the Dispute. But the King was so far from trusting to the force of Truth, and the aid of Time, that in this Conference he threatned another kind of Force. The Consequence of which was, those Sects which were not dangerous at first, became so at last. Nor was this all, he made those Sects his Enemies, and gave them great Advantages of Popularity and Strength; first by the great Indulgence he show'd to Roman Catholicks; secondly, by ranking among the puritan Party all those who stood up in defence of Civil Liberty. No King, no Bishop, was the Language of the Court; no Bishop, no King, that of the Church.

These Evils, says the Craftsman, were aggravated by conducting our National Interest abroad against the Sense of the Nation.

That the Treaty he made with Spain 1504, was generally censur'd. He courted the Power of Spain, which Q. Elizabeth had broke, and which would have courted him, had he known how to put so much as Dignity on his Proceedings. He disoblig'd the Dutch, yet suffer'd their Affronts; sign'd two Treaties with them, yet scrupled not to Call them Rebels. As to the part he took in the Troubles of Germany, he put himself on such a foot, and aquired such a Character, that he had not Credit among the protestants, nor much Influence over his Son-in-Law, the Elect. Palatine; and the Catholick Party sure of amusing him, neglected and despised him.

Read's Journal, May 8. No. 320.

Of Extravagance in Dress.

Observes, that there are some things which in all Ages have afforded Subjects for Ridicule. In the first rank of these he reckons Dress. This, at first view, may seem trifling, appears otherwise when we consider how far a Man must sink below the Dignity of his Nature, before he can suffer his Thoughts to be wholly employ'd in ornamenting his Body. Should this be said to young Papillio, who from a meer Country Booby, in nine Months Acquaintance with the Town, is grown a compleat Fop and errant Debauchee, it would be answered, that Garb was the most essential part of a modern fine Gentleman, and drew the Eyes and Respect of the Beholder. Answers this with a Story out of Plutarch, viz. a Persian Nobleman coning to a Painter's Shop with a magnificent Equipage, ask'd several simple Questions about his Art; to which the Painter reply'd, Whilst thou were silent, I paid a deference to the Eclat of thy Purple and Gold, but now by speaking thou hast made thy self the Jest, even of the Boys that grind my Colours.

To dress in a manner inconsistent with our Condition, he says, is to throw away our Mony and Time, purely to make our selves ridiculous.

Mentions, as an instance, Mr. Yarnley, the Hosier's Wife, going to a Ball to tell the People her fine laced Head cost 300 l. the consequence of which was, she was laugh'd at; half of her Husband's Customers left his Shop, to deal with those they thought had more occasion for it; and his Creditors grew uneasy, fancying that Money might fall short when his Wife's Head came to be paid for; verifying the Spanish Proverb, When Pride gallops hard, Poverty rides behind on the Crupper.

The Universal Spectator, Saturday May 8. No. 135.

Of Academical Education.

A Gentleman, who had been lately at one of our Universities, for his Diversion, gives our Author some Account of their Methods of Education.

Says, he found in the younger part of the University a generous and noble Spirit reigning, and good Sense improv'd and elevated by a valuable stock of choice and useful Learning, widely different from the usual run of young Fellows about London, whose utmost stretch of Learning is to repeat scraps out of Plays, or Poetry; or perhaps produce a few stale Arguments against Christianity.

But takes notice of one general faults among them, i.e. the distance observ'd by Tutors to their Pupils; whereby the paternal and filial Affection which should subsist between them, is prevented, and misunderstanding and dislike occasion'd. For nothing wins more upon young People, than a good natur'd open Treatment.

To this Distance and Reserve may be attributed, that so few Friendships are contracted between Tutor and Pupil. The Haughty and Dogmatical are substituted in the room of the Friendly, Benevolent and Obliging.

Hereby likewise, he says, they frequently embroil themselves with their Pupils to the great uneasiness and prejudice of both. Knew a sober ingenious Youth treated with the utmost severity on no other account than his Tutor's ignorance of his temper and genius.

As to the Objection that Familiarity may breed Contempt, he answers, it may be just with respect to those Tutors, whole only Qualifications lie in Form and Distance, but not to those of real Merit.

A Tutor, he thinks, should delight in the Conversation of his Pupils, make their Studies agreeable, and endear himself by Gentleness and Courtesy, whereby he would let himself into the knowledge of their Temper, and thereby be ready to amend the bad, and cherish the good.

Fog's Journal, Sat. May 8. No. 131.

Of the Behaviour of the Clergy.

(A subject some of Fog's good Friends wish he had not touch'd so hard.)

A Certain Author, he says, tells us, that the Reason why the Clergy are dignify'd with Titles, and raised to the Rank of Nobles, was owing to the Wisdom as well as Piety of our Ancestors, who judg'd, that thereby the Cause of God would be more effectually advanced amongst the Rich as well as the Poor. See p. 151-2.

If the Conduct of a Clergyman be Servile, Base and Designing; or his Actions have a tendency to worldly Advantage, his preaching once a Year will be interpreted only as a formal compliance with his Profession.

For a Prelate to think of nothing but establishing private grandeur upon the Endowments of the Church, contradicts the design of those Endowments, which the Piety of Laymen first instituted, for advancing Religion, and the Service of God.

When a Bishop betrays the Dignity of his Function by base Flattery, or servile Compliance with bad Men, it is an affront to Divine Majesty it self.

Thus far his Author, who Fog says, has several other Reflections, which cannot be two severe, while they are confin'd to Vices and spare the Order.

Speaks this with an Eye to a Pamphlet entil'd, Animadversions on a Reverend Prelate's Remarks on a Bill now depending in Parliament, entitl'd, A Bid to prevent Suits for Tithes, &c.

The Book is very satyrical upon the Signify'd Clergy; says, 'tis an intolerable grievance that some Bithops who cant and whine for the Maintenance of the Clergy, do at the same time possess immense Revenues. Bids them first show Examples of Charity, and augment poor Livings by the division of exorbitant Church Endowments, and quit their Antichristian Cures in Commendam.

Supposes, that if a Bishoprick, of 5000 l. per Ann. should be reduc'd to 500, how many Parishes would the residue, duly distributed, honourably endow? If to this should be added fat Deaneries, Chapter-Lands, Prebends, and Sine Cures, what a Fund would this raise for the cure of Souls without one Farthing rais'd in Tythes? only some thousands per Ann. abated in spiritual Luxury.

Closes his Paper with some Observations wrote by a Man in holy Orders; in the Conclusion of which 'tis said, that if the Priesthood grows base and worldly, it will soon be despised, when they are despised, Religion declines of course, and when Religion is gone, we have lost the best Support of this Life as well as of the other.

Weekly Register, May 8. No. 56.

On Conversation.

Next to the Pleasure arising from a good Conscience, and the standing in Favour with God and Man, he says, are those of Conversation; because the several kinds of Pleasure, Rational, Moral and Sensitive, are there agreeably blended. The design of Conversation is to give and receive Pleasure; to promote good Humour, and good Manners; to increase in Knowledge and Virtue, and to tie the Knot of Friendship closer and stronger.

To make a perfectly good Companion, a Man should have so much Learning as to enable him to taste the Greek and Latin Authors; an Extensive and general Knowledge of Men and Things; Judgment, Wit, Vivacity, Humour, good Nature, or a strong desire to please. But as all these are not to be expected in one Man, 'tis however necessary he should have two of them, viz. Knowledge and good Nature. The more general our Knowledge is, the better. For he who is Master of but one or two things is usually a pedant; wise in one thing, and a blockhead in every thing else. Our Knowledge should be in the first place, that which is most useful, then that which is most fashionable and becoming a Gentleman. Moral Knowledge, or the Science of Life, is absolutely necessary for our own happy Conduct. Natural Philosophy entertains and fills the Mind with great and sublime Ideas of the first Cause. The History of Men in all Ages and Countries, their Manners, Customs and Laws; which to read with Advantage, 'tis necessary to understand Geography and Chronology. Bids us study the History of our own Country, and read Poetry to improve our Imagination and Language. But, as 'tis impossible to prevent Disputes in Comprny, recommends it as highly necessary to know how to differ with good Manners.

The Grub-street Journal, Thursday May 13. No. 70.

Impudence, or Mr. Henly pictur'd.

A letter address'd to Mr. Bavius, intimates, that in a former Essay upon IMPUDENCE, (p. 104.) he had done Mr. Henly the Honour of making him the Hero of his Work; and is surpriz'd to find he takes it ill, but sees no Reason why he should be angry with him for what he said in his praise; Impudence being almost the only recommendation to Preferment; and says, it would be as bad for him to disown it, as it would be to disown his Name or Being. Was, (says the Letter-writer) that steddy Face of his, that goodly Bronze, that more than English, or Welch Copper, in his dun and dusky Countenance given him for nothing? Is not the most consummate Impudence exerted in all his Words, Actions and Gestures, and diffused over his whole Person? Could any thing but the heigth of Impudence make him promise to perform Impossibilities? engage in Attempts perfectly shocking to humane Nature? pretend to correct the whole learned Work proving them to be all in the wrong! and himself alone in the right! to teach Oratory, Poetry, and all the belles Lettres, without having the least Genius for them, or Taste of them! to make his own single Person an Academy of all Art and Sciences, without understanding any? His Medals, which, though of three different Metals; are all Brass; and these modest mottos of his, ad summa, and aut inveniam viam, aut saciam, are other illustrious Proofs of this Truth.

Another Argument produced to prove his Title to the Palm of Effrontery is his Italian and French Grammars, out of which several Passages, to shew that he neither understood common Sense, nor the Languages he pretended to explain and teach, are given in this Paper, which taking up two Columns thereof, are too long to insert here, so we must refer the curious to it.

The Free Briton, Thursday May 13.

The History of Patriotism continued.

The Author proceeds in describing the Measures taken by the Tory Faction in Q. Anne's Reign, to bring about a Revolution in the Ministry.

The Engines employ'd, he says, were the Press and the Church. The Nation in general was satisfied with the Administration, till an innundation of Libels produc'd the alteration, which few could foresee, and all honest Men lamented. See p. 160, 194.

The Church was drawn into the Quarrel by vile Insinuations of her being in Danger; hereby the Clergy was made ripe for any Enterprize against the Ministry; and the Sovereign too having an undistinguishing Kindness for the Church, was led into such Measures, as brought about the Disgrace of her Truest Friends, the change of her Ministers, and of the H. of Commons.

In the next Election, says our Author, the whole Weight of the Church was employ'd against the Whiggs. The first thing this Parliament did was to censure the last Administration.

They labour'd to find a Mismanagement of Money under the late Administration; and made a Charge that 35 Millions Sterling were not accounted for; which was fully confuted, it appearing that Accounts had been duely render'd for all, except 4 Millions. The intent of this Charge was to disgrace Lord Treasurer Godolphin, whom they voted guilty of a notorious Breach of Trust, and high Injustice to the Nation, for not compelling the respective Accountants to pass their Accounts. This they did before the only Evidence, (that of the Deputy Remembrancer) which could set this Matter in a true Light, was laid before them.

The D. of Marlborough likewise suffered their Resentment; the known and usual Perquisites of the General are voted publick Money, and to be accounted for. A new General is appointed; and 6000 l. immediately paid him for his Equipage; and 600 l. per Mensem for his Table, neither of which the other ever had or ask'd; at the same time He was Lord Lieut. of Ireland, Col. of the first Regiment of Foot Guards, and of a Reg. of Horse; the incomes of which, added to the Sums above-mentioned, it will be seen that a good Manager might farm them at 40,000l. per Ann. and be very well paid for his Trouble. The like frugal Management, concludes he, may be expected from our present pretended Patriots and Reformers.

Daily-Courant, Tuesday, May 11.

A Challenge to the Craftsman.

Inserts a Letter sign'd The Cursory Observator, who having about eleven Months since, made some Remarks upon the Antimonarchical Proceedings of our Modern Patriots, and brought Parallels of some Gentlemen who were in the Parliament of 1640, was answer'd by Humphrey Oldcastle in the Craftsm. June 27, 1730. In which Answer Mr. Oldcastle promises a more particular Reply to the said Remarks, when he comes to apply his general Propositions to the English History, and that the Example the Observator had chosen, will come out against the very Purpose he had apply'd it to.

But Mr. Oldcastle having not been so good as his word, the Observator calls upon him now to do it, and not to substitute bad Jokes in the room of good Reason; nor answers by Quibbles, when he is call'd upon for Proofs.

Craftsman, Sat. May 15. No. 254.

Remarks on the History of England.

Mr. Oldcastle pursues his Remarks on the Reign of K. James I. by observing, That this King had been banter'd and abus'd by the Spaniards in treating of a Marriage for his eldest Son Pr. Henry, with Anne of Austria; yet no sooner was an Overture made him from Spain of marrying the Infanta Mary, second Daughter of Phillip III. to Pr. Charles, but he catched the Bait, and hung upon it for seven Years.

A Plan was laid by the House of Austria, and other Roman Catholick Princes for oppressing the Protestants and invading the Liberties of Germany; to affect which, they amus'd K. James so as to keep him from diverting the Forces of Spain. Charges him with endeavouring to establish Popery in England, which he proves by refering to the marriage Articles sworn to both by him and the Prince of Wales, by which they engag'd to suspend, and even abrogate all Laws made against Roman Catholicks; never consent to the making any new Laws of the same kind; the Children born of that Marriage to be educated by the Mother till ten years old; which the Prince promised to lengthen to twelve Years at the request of the Pope.

The Parliament, he says, foreseeing the fatal Consequences of this Negotiation, endeavour'd all they could to prevent them, by forcing King James into a War for recovering the Palatinate; but he meant nothing less. Some Money he got by this trick, but could get no more. Therefore he dissolves them in a rage, and imprisoned several of their Members.

He proceeds to mention other instances of the King's ill Conduct; that of breaking of the Match with Spain, and concluding another with France. Ships were sent to the K. of France against his Protestant Subjects; yet the persecution of his Protestant Subjects was made the pretence of a Rupture with him.

Observes further, that K. Charles followed his Father's Steps and Principles of Government; and to compleat his Misfortune, put all his Confidence in a Madman, viz. Buckingham. Parliaments were laid aside; and he govern'd without any for 12 Years together. Jealousy about Religion and Liberty were now at the height, which had they been cured in Time, might very probably have prevented the ensuing Rebellion. The King had in a manner renounced the Constitution, and govern'd by illegal Acts of Power, which the Council, the Starchamber, and the High Commission exercised. The Judges became the Instruments of Arbitrary Power, and the Law, by them, so corruptly interpreted, that, says my Lord Clarendon, The Foundation of Right were, to the Apprehension and understanding of wise Men, never more in danger to be destroy'd.

Another thing contributing to K. Charles his Misfortunes, was resuming the Project of modelling the Church of Scotland, which K. James had begun. A. Bp. Laud, who had neither Temper nor Resolution, conducted the Enterprize, and precipitated the publick Ruin. The Puritans of England and those of Scotland united, and an Army was raised. A Parliament was call'd in 1640, and had the King but a little condescended to the Counsels they gave him, he might have prevented the Troubles that ensued; but he us'd them now as he always did, regarding them only as Tax-layers, and dissolv'd them after they had sat about a Month, but quickly repented of his rashness.

Here the Craftsman puts an end to his Remarks, by observing, 1. That if the Spirit of Liberty had once relaxed in the space of 40 years, Liberty must have been swallowed up by Prerogative. 2. The Spirit of Liberty always determin'd to defend the People, but was unwilling to offend the King; and the Spirit of Faction is answerable for all the Ills that followed.

N.B. The Craftsman having lessened his Popularity by his Reflections on K. Charles the First, a Vindication of that Monarch from his design'd Insinuations may be seen in the Occasional Historian, No. II. written by Mr. Earbery, printed for A. Dod, pr 1s.

The London Journal, Sat. May 15. No. 616.

Observations on Mr. Oldcastle's Remarks upon K. James's Conduct, with relation to Parties, and the Affairs of Germany.

Mr. Oldcastle, as Mr. Orborne conceives, having drawn Parallels between several Transactions in K. James I. Reign, and the Conduct of the present Times, this Paper is wrote with a design to shew that there is no Resemblance or Agreement either in Facts or Circumstances.

To this purpose Osborne makes Remarks on two Passages of the last Craftsmen, No. 253-4. p. 195, 199.

The first is, That K. James met with no Parties in the Nation, but such as were founded on Religious Differences, but drew himself into Trouble by disgracing and proscribing Men, who had no Crime, but their Attachment to the late Queen.

Says, the Case was very different when the present Royal Family came to the Crown, who found Parties already form'd, not caus'd by religious Differences, but as distinguish'd by being for or against the legal Constitution of England; for or against the Revolutions; for or against the Settlement of the Crown on their House; and for and against the Liberty of the Subjects Religious and Civil; and it would have been the most absurd thing in the World, had the late King put the Administration of Affairs into any other Hands than those who had always shewn themselves warmly for the Liberties of the People, and the Interests of his House.

The second Passage he remarks upon, is, K. James's Conduct, with relation to the Affairs of Germany, which, however blameable, does not (the Craftsman says) authorize our taking part in every German Quarrel, by paying Subsidies, maintaining Armies and involving our selves on all Affairs on the Continent.

To which Osborne replies, that, laying aside the Consideration of the Hanover Dominions, which we ought in point of Gratitude to defend, it was incumbent upon us from the Nature of our late Circumstances and Alliances, to have foreign Troops, and pay foreign Subsidies, and it will be eternally our Interest to support the Protestant Cause, as that Cause is the Cause of Liberty.

He adds, by way of Postscript, a recommendation of a Pamphlet lately publish'd entitled, a Letter from Waitwell Longhead, Esq; in which the Conduct of the Ministry is set in a clear Light, and their Measures justify'd from Principles of Reason.

Fog's Journal, Sat. May 15. No. 132.

Is a Dissertation on the Pamphlet, last mentioned in the preceding London Journal, written by Waitwell Longhead, Esq; or, as Fog calls him, Loggerhead, or Ulrick D'ypres, who, he says, is the same Person, whatever Character he may assume.

Fog says, It should be known, that Ulrick, in his last Pamphlet signed Longhead, or Loggerhead, has not only taken much Pains to convince us of the Happiness we have enjoy'd for some Years past, in having such wise and able Ministers, but he has likewise maul'd off the Disaffected; for in the first Paragraph, he describes them as a kind of popular Sycophants, who pass unobserved, nay often esteemed by the generality of Mankind.—Now to be unoberserved and esteemed too, is something extraordinary; but here lies the Art, for a Man to write so that his Adversaries cannot lay hold of him.—Ulrick, knows how ready the disaffected are to cavil; let them make the most of that! Fog in the same manner ridicules every Argument advanced by Mr. Longhead, in behalf of the Administration, then adds, 'I beg your Pardon, Master Ulrick, I forget that you write with a design not to be comprehended.'

Universal Spectator, Sat. May 15. No. 136.

Entertains his Readers with a Description of the Spring; but as it is impossible to paint it so beautiful as Nature represents it, we rather chuse to refer our Readers to a view of the Original it self, and conclude with some lines of Advice, which he quotes from Thompson's Poem on the Spring.

————Ah now, ye Fair!

Be greatly cautious of your sliding Hearts;

Dare not the infectious sigh, the pleading Eye

In meek Submission drest, deject; and low,

But full of tempting Guile—Let nor the Tongue

Prompt to deceive, with Adulation smooth,

Gain on your purpos'd Wills—Nor in the Bower,

Where Woodbines flaunt, and Roses shed a Couch,

Where Evening draws her crimson,d Curtains round

Trust your soft Minutes with betraying Man.

* * *

The Grub-street Journal, No. 72.

Sir Isaac Newton's Creed, suppos'd to be written in Imitation of St. Athanasius's Creed.

This BEING governs all things, not as a Soul of the World, but as Lord of the Universe; and upon account of his Domminion, he is stiled Lord God, Supreme over all. The supreme God is an Eternal, Infinite, absolutely Perfect Being: But a Being how perfect soever, without Dominion, is not Lord God. The term God very frequently signifies Lord; but every Lord is not God. The Dominion of a Spiritual Being constitutes him God; true Dominion, true God; supreme Dominion, supreme God; imaginary Dominion, imaginary God. He is not Eternity and Infinity, but Eternal and Infinite: He is not Duration and Space, but has Duration of Existence, and is present; by existing always and every where, he constitutes Duration and Space (Eternity and Infinity). Since every part of Space always is, and every indivisible Moment of Duration is every where; certainly the Maker and Lord of all things, cannot be said to be in no Time, and no Place. He is Omnipresent, not by his Power only, but in his very Substance; for Power cannot subsist without Substance. God is not at all affected with the Motions of Bodies, neither do they find any Resistance from the Omnipresence of God. He necessarily exists; always and every where. Whence also it follows, that he is all Similar, all Eye, all Ear, all Brain, all Arm, all Sensation, all Understanding, all active Power; but this not in a Human or Corporal, but in a manner wholly unknown to us; therefore not to be worshiped under any corporal representation.

Free Briton, May 20. No. 77.

The History of Patriotism continued.

Prrocceeds in his Review of the Measures taken to disgrace the Duke of Marlborough, and E. Godolphin: This he does by examining whether the Faction did really think them such wicked and unskilful Ministers as they represented them.

The Noble Person, who was the most strenuous Opposer of the Duke and his Friends, left his solemn Declaration on the Rolls of Parliament, That her Majesty Q. Anne, was pleased about August 1710, to readmit him, among others, to a Place in her Councils, and to require his Services in Offices of Trust; to which he submitted, purely in Obedience to her Majesty's Command, with great Reluctance, &c.

Says, 'tis an irrefragable Argument to prove the Justice of the former Adminsstration, since their worst Enemies avowed their Measures when they succeeded to their Employments.

As an Instance of this produces the Declaration of the H. of Commons, that exceeding the Parliamentary Provisions was a new and illegal Practice, and a dangerous Invasion of the Rights of Parliament, delivered in a Representation to the Queen, May 24, 1710; yet (says the Author of the Short History) the Exceedings of the next year, with respect to the Supply granted for the Navy, was above 600,000 l. and for the Year 1712, 500,000 l. These Exceedings were laid before the Parliament; but by the Management of a certain Earl, no notice was taken of 'em.

On the other hand, This House of Commons, who thought the Burthen of Taxes intolerable, and that the Deplorable Circumstances of the Nation made almost any Peace desirable, raised and levied more Money upon the Subjects in two Years, in which nothing at all was done, than was raised in any two of the most glorious successful Years of the War.

Concludes with a Quotation from a Paper entituled, A brief Account of the publick Affairs, written by the late E. of Oxford, and sent to the Queen, wherein he tells her Majesty, That his Project for easing the Nation of about Nine Millions of Debts, by establishing the South Sea Company, gave Offence to some of his fellow Servants, who told him plainly, if he would not get Money himself, he ought to let his Friends share an Hundred Thousand Pounds, which would not have been felt, in so vast a Sum. To this Principle was owing the setting on foot the unhappy Voyage to Canada. Which his Lordship says he opposed. But June 4, 1711, three days after he was sworn into the Treasurer's Office, he was surprized with a demand of 28,036 l. for Arms and Merchandize said to be sent to Canada. When he scrupled this, Mr. Secretary St. John, and Mr. Moore, came to him with much Passion on this Affair. About a Fortnight after the Secretary of State, signified the Queen's positive Pleasure to have that Money paid, and accordingly her Majesty signed a Warrant, June 21, and the Treasurer not being able then with all his precaution, to discover further light, the Money was paid, July 4, 1711.

After their return from their Expedition, his Lordship observes, it was discover'd, the Publick was cheated of above Twenty Thousand Pounds. His Lordship adds, There is reason to be more particular upon this Head, because it was one of the things never to be forgiven him; and Lord Chancellor Harcourt told him more to that purpose. 'They told him, that no Government was worth serving, that would not let them make those Advantages, and get such Jobbs.' See p. 160, 194, 199.

Craftsman, Sat. May 22. No. 255.

Vindication of his two Hon. Patrons.

Contains Mr. Oldcastle's concluding Letter on the general Subject of his Discourses, which, running in a strain of personal Altercation with his Adversaries, we shall confine our selves to the latter part of his Discourse, wherein he endeavours to justifie two Gentlemen from several Calumnies thrown upon them (he say) by the writers on the opposite side.

One of these, (viz. Mr. P———y) he tells us, is charged with leaving his Friends and Party, and that he is urg'd to oppose the M———r by the Stings of disappointed Ambition. This, Oldcastle says, is ridiculous, and defies his greatest Enemy to shew, that he hath renounced the Principles of good Policy which he formerly professed; that he still inveighs against publick Profusion and private Corruption, and that they who oppose him, have left both Him and Virtue. See p. 251-60, 279-280-81.

The latter part of the Charge, he says, is no better founded; that it is begging the Question, and asks, Whether Measures, which he fears are wicked, dangerous Ambition, insatiable Avarice, and insolent Behaviour may not be his Provocation? That he possessed two considerable Employments in the State, one of wich he voluntarily laid down, and behaved with unspotted Integrity in both, and is persuaded he will not accept of a third.

As to the Defamation display'd against the other Gentleman, (Ld. Bp.) he affirms, it will appear, if examin'd, equally false, and perhaps more scandalous; because the accused, by his Situation, is depriv'd of the opportunity of making his Defence against the Crimes laid to his charge, which are Ingratitude and Treachery, particularly to the late D. of Marlborough and E. Godolphin; for whose Memories he professes a high Veneration, but knows no Obligation of Honour or Gratitude he lay under to continue in their Administration, when the Measures of it were altered; that he came to Court on the Call of the late Queen in opposition to Them.

Another part of the Charge is, his Ingratitude to the late King. This he answers by gratefully acknowledging the Clemency and goodness of his late Majesty, as it was unask’d and unearn’d, bur disclaims any Obligations to the Minister; and that his Majesty’s further gracious Intentions towards him were not fulfill’d, was owing solely to the Minister.

Owns; that this Gentleman was engag’d in the cause of the Pretender; that he serv’d him unfaithfully was false; that he did not engage with him till he was attainted; and that since he has been disengaged, he hath made no Commerce, direct or indirect, in favour of that cause; and for the truth hereof appeals to a Noble Lord, by whose Testimony he is willing to stand or fall. See p. 252-3, 291-2.

Fog's Journal, Sat, May 22. No. 133.

Cavils of the Disaffected.

In two preceding Discourses, Fog, in his ironical Way, had set forth the Artifices of the Disaffected; in this takes notice of some Cavils made to the Writings of Osborn and Walsingham. For instance, That they assert Facts contrary to Demonstration, draw Conclusions without Reason, and make Liberty it self nothing but a Licence for Writers for Men in Power, to assert the most palpable Falshoods.

This, tho' it sounds like a heavy Charge, he says, is of no weight, for allowing it to be true, certainly those who write for Men in Power, ought to enjoy some Privileges beyond other Authors; nor can it be deny'd, but Ministers of State themselves, and publick Ambassadors may lie upon occasion; and what a man may legally act himself, he may by his Attorney.

Again, says he, Authors of all kinds bear some relation to Poets, who often swell a Molehill into a Mountain, by the use of a certain Machine call'd the Hyperbole.

If therefore, says Fog, I was to prove the late Measures of our Administration, I would begin by asserting, there was a larger Demand than ever for our home Manufactures; that our Trade was more extensive than formerly; that there was a greater quantity of Species in the Kingdom than heretofore; and that the publick Debts were considerably diminished within a few Years; and that the Facts should be granted me, I wou'd produce my Licentia Ministeria, or Privilege for Lying.

Another Accusation is, that they are daily asserting or denying the same Facts, with disproving and contradicting their own Arguments.

To this he answers, that 'tis very hard, if in a Land of Liberty like this a Gentleman, should not be allow'd to do what he pleases with his own Arguments.

Another Charge against these Gentlemen is. That it is their constant Custom to lull their Readers to sleep. - But this Clamour, he plainly sees, is raised by the Apothecaries, who would suffer no Persons to administer Opiates but themselves: Besides, he observes, the Writings of the Craftsman, and others (meaning here his own) have a quite contrary Effect, whose professed Design is to keep the People awake.

Another Cavil is, that these Gentlemen are not only serious without Sense or Arguments, but attempt to rally without Wit.

But pray, says he, why may not Gentlemen be grave without Sense, and arch without Wit, if they can? Is there any Law in force against it?―God long preserve our wise and able―

The London Journal Sat. May 22.

No. 617.

Advice against Deception.

MR. Oldcastle, in the Craftsman, having concluded his Historical Remarks, Osborne here takes his leave of him, by giving his Readers a Specimen of all his Works, and an infallible way to preserve themselves from being deceiv'd and corruped; which is, that he (Oldcastle) has carefully put down in Italicks certain Words and Sentences, he would have understood as Parallels to the present Times; for instance, (not to mention K. James I.) that K. Charles I. came a Party-Man to the Throne, and believed, he might do what he pleased with the Constitution, the Laws and the People of England; that he might renounce the Constitution he was sword to preserve; break the Laws he was sworn to keep; and destroy the People he was sworn to protect. Nay, adds the Craftsman, he broke the few Ties of Union which remain'd between himself and the Nation, that he might he might skreen some of the most unworthy Men that ever disserved a Prince, or dishonoured a Court.

Osborne then shews, that, neither the said Particulars, nor any Foreign or Domestick Affairs of those Reigns, bear the least Resemblance to ours; and concludes, that great as the Difference is, endeavours are vilely used to represent them to the People in the same odious Characters.

Universal Spectator, Sat. May 22.

No. 137

On Impertinence.

HE defines it to be a certain Giddiness in the Mind, occasioned by a redundant liveliness of Imagination; accompanied usually with a stupefaction of Judgment; from this Incongruity in the intellectual Œconomy, arises an Absurdity of Behaviours and ridiculous Vagaries.

This he diversifies with several instances. Silvia, he says is of an alert Disposition, but infected with this Distemper; her Actions, Words and Looks are full of it. No sooner she comes into the Room, but she engrosses the talk, and you must be acquainted with all her concerns, from the beginning of her first Courtship down to the Birth of her last Child.

Novellus is continually informing us of News from Abroad. You never meet him but he is in as great a hurry as an Express, and he never visits you, without bringing as many Advices as a Foreign Mail.

Describes a certain Family in Town which seems to have contracted the whole Circle of Impertinence within it self. Happening to dine there, in the Afternoon came in Capt. Petard, a young Officer, who, at the request of Clarissa, gave the Company a Song, which was but little more than ended before Clarissa sung half a dozen Italian Airs in a Breath, and followed them with as many more from the Beggar's Opera. As she was running on, her Aunt Priscilla interpos'd, by wondring where Girls learn all this Stuff, and then proceeded to give an Account of her Education, Manage merit, Houswifry, &c. Mardonius, the Father interrupted her, by telling her what influence the Stars had at her Niece's Birth, and over her Fortune.

The Cure which he proposes for this Malady, is to treat in their own way such as are infected with the same Vice; for Impertinence offends none so much as the Impertinent.

The last Species he mentions, is what he calls the manual Impertinents, that divert themselves with scratching a Plate, or cutting the Table, as if they did not see Folks, or, what is worse, despised them. These ought to be disregarded in their turn, and cut off from Society till they reform.

The Daily Courant, May 22.

Of W. P. Esq; and Lord B———ke

Fog having in his last Journal (vid P. 204) in a sneering ironical manner justify'd the Writings of Osborne and Walsingham, a Letter is here inserted, sign'd Oldcastle, which in the same strain, ridicules the last Craftsman under a pretence of applauding him. The Letter runs thus:

Sir, You and I are engaged in the Cause of Liberty, that is, a right of thinking and acting as we please; all Laws Human and Divine to the contrary notwithstanding.—The Fellows that write against us are Rascals and Insects; and to be sure some of them have Pensions. Their being angry with us for writing about Liberty, such as I have defin'd it, is a proof that they are in the wrong, and a justification of all you have written in that strain. He that sets 'em on, is a Rogue, and keeps our Friends out of Power and Places, and, between you and I, is no great Friend to the present Establishment; I could prove him a Jacobite if I wou'd, for he has some private Interest at heart besides that of the Establishment.

Now, sir, some of those Writers have had the assurance to abuse two very good Friends of ours, which to be sure, was a shameful thing. The first of them they charge with forsaking his Friends and Party, whereas his Friends and Party forsook him. If he is angry with the Ministry he has reason. He had two good Places, one of which the Ministry took away from him.

Then, Sir, the other Gentleman is charg'd with the Devil and all of Villany and Treachery, which to be sure cannot be true; for, as it was all acted in the dark, no body can prove it against him. He is accused of Ingratitude and Treachery to the D. of Marlborough and L. Godolphin. But this is such a mistake!—Why, he was their Friend and not their Creature; and sure there's a difference between breach of Friendship and Ingratitude.—If he was in the Pretender's Service, he was attainted and outlaw'd here; and it's a hard Case, if a man be turn'd out of one Service, if he may not provide himself another Master. See Extract of the Craftsman, P. 203.

* * *

The Grub-street Journal, Thursday May 27. No. 73.

Disadvantage of appearing in Business.

Thomas Trim of the Middle Temple, Esq; by Petition to the Grubean Society, complains, that notwithstanding he has for the space of three Years last past, cautiously avoided the least application to, or appearance of Business; and at the same time most diligently studied all the modern Fashions and Gallantries of the Beau-monde, yet finds it impossible to get over the Prejudice and Imputation of being treated and considered as a Lawyer upon all Occasions, and in all Places, except the Courts of Justice, and the Temple aforesaid; from whence result the following Inconveniences.

1. Hereby he is subjected to the vilest Indignities, and to allow the greatest Disparities between him and his Acquaintance; insomuch, that Sir Fopling Flutter (tho' his good Friend) will not admit his having the least Taste for Dress, notwithstanding he has used Sir Fopling's own Taylor, &c. Nor durst he mention the least Amour, Intrigue, Dress, Equipage, or Name of any Person of Quality in the presence of Will. Courtley; altho' the Petitioner is Heir to a good Estate, and the said Will. but a second Son.

2. That having been very careful to avoid the use of the Words Chambers, Laundress, &c. yet having bought some Lace of Dolly Ogle in Pall-mall, she very pertly told him, it should be safely delivered to his Clerk.

3. That he is utterly undone, in that he is excluded from the least hopes of Favours from the Ladies, who, to the Number of about 13000 Maids, Wives and Widows, that had look'd a full Approbation of his Dress, Person and Parts, by the mere sound of the word Templar, had turn'd all their Kindness into Indifference and Contempt.

The Premises considered, he humbly hopes the Society will think it worth their greatest care to correct those Discouragements to Wit and Pleasure, which may drive many hopeful young Fellows back to Business, and severer Studies, and deter them from those Courses which have produced the incomparable J—M—S, and your Petitioner.

The Free Briton, Thursday May 27. No. 78.

The History of Patriotism continued.

The Author gives the Substance of two Letters addressed to the late Q. Anne, by the Earls Godolphin and Oxford in the decline of their Power, to shew the remarkable Difference between them. Godolplin tells her Majesty in his Letter, That she was suffering herself to be guided to her own Ruin and Destruction. To bring a Person into her Service, who had voted with the Tories, and caballed with Mr. Harley, what Consequence could it have, but to make every man that was in her Cabinet uneasie, and run from it as from a Plague? Leaves it to her to judge, what effect this Change of her Ministry would have among her Allies abroad; and how the War will be carried on by those who had all along opposed and obstructed it, and who would like any Peace the more it left France at liberty of imposing the Pretender upon this Country. Adds, That her Majesty would lose all the Reputation that her Arms had acquired by the War, and the Kingdom all the Fruit of the Conquests obtained by its Arms. And can any body imagine, said he, that, after so great a disappointment to the Kingdom, there will not be an Enquiry into the Causes of it? I am very much afraid your Majesty will find, when too late, a difficult Task, for any body to stand against it. In the close, begs her to read the Letter again at Christmas, and then to judge who has given her the best and most faithful Advice

Oxford, in his Letter to the Queen, puts himself wholly on her Majesty's transcendant Goodness and Mercy; prays God to direct her, and to do with him as she pleased. Charges his Colleagues with Division, Ambition, and notorious Corruption; with cheating the Publick, and grievous Embezzlments of Money; makeing it a Merit in himself, that he had used all his Skill and Credit to prevent the Enquiries of Parliament into those Frauds and Embezzelments.

He concludes with giving a great Character of the Lord Treasurer Godolphin, and exposing the Behaviour of a certain Person who once betray'd his Country, and yet wants to be trusted again.

Weekly Register, May 29. No. 59.

Sir John Falstaff, in the Shades, to the Modern Patriots.

A Letter, sign'd Falstaff, supposes a Resemblance between the Characters and Behaviours of Old Sir John Falstaff, as drawn by Shakespeare, and the modern Pretenders to Patriotism, in the following Particulars, viz.

In his (Falstaff's) time, Men used to take a Purse, or so, on the Road, only for a Frolick: these make War upon a whole nation, and put the Publick to Contribution. As he, so they love to fish in troubled Waters; he, indeed in a few Rivulets, they engross the whole Ocean; the same Genius that led him to the Highway, made them Patriots, and his Loyalty the only difference between them.

In his first Conversation with Pr. Hal. he desired that Men of Courage might not be stiled Thieves and Ruffians, but Diana's Forester's, Gentlemen of the Shade, Minions of the Moon, &c. What is this, says he, but turning Faction into Patriotism? In the same Scene he intreats, that no Gallows maybe standing in England: and complains heartily of the Law as a Curb to his Pleasures: This, says he, resembles their Terrors of the Pillory, Fines, &c. and their cries for the Liberty of the Press.

He counterfeits the Whine of Penitance, and resolves an Amendment, or to write himself a Villain, but no sooner is ask'd Where shall we take a Purse to Morrow? but he answers, Where thou wilt Lad, I'll make one—Is mistaken if this does not tally with our modern Cabals.

The Master-piece of his Conduct, and the Model of theirs, is to cover a bad Action with a shew of sullen Bravery? as it was his Business then, 'tis theirs now to find fault, right or wrong.

His next Artifice was to magnify Danger; in which they weekly imitate him in the Absurdities, which every Saturday teems with, that like Fame, have small Beginnings, but grow in their Hands to Giants, and end in the Clouds.

The next Point he mentions, is, when his Prince Hal took Possession, he expected to be made Prime Minister, but was left to live on Patriotism: Being in Disgrace, he rail'd at the Government, and made his Court to the People, and dy'd a Martyr to the Cause; and forwarns them of the same Fate.

Universal Spectator, Sat. May 29.

Of Sincerity.

Sincerity, our Author says, is generally profess'd, but scarcely found. Honesty, Plain dealing, and simplicity of Manners, are laid aside for good Breeding, Politeness and Complaisance, which interpreted by Actions, mean little else but Dissimulation, Flattery and Deceit.

Says, as he was walking in Westminster Hall, he saw an old Acquaintance most affectionately embrace a Gentleman, whom he no sooner parted from, then he call'd him as worthless a Dog as ever lived; on Mr. Spectator's enquiring the Reason, adds he you must know he keeps an open Table, where one meets the best Company, and a Glass of excellent French Claret, which makes him caress'd, though a Fellow of the most Excerable Principles.

These Expressions put our Author upon considering the State of Friendship, as it stood among the Ancients, compared with what we find it according to the Moderns.

Ancient Friendship was raised upon some extraordinary Accomplishment, was open, hearty and generous; full of Affection, Confidence, Sincerity, Truth and Favour; that of the Modern is founded wholly upon Interest; and made up of Craft, Hypocrisy and Flattery, from whence spring Forgetfulness, of Benefits, Ingratitude, Treachery and Injuries.

Fog's Journal, May 29. No. 184.

Against mustering the Militia of (illegible text).

The first part of this Paper is fill'd with Quotations from a Pamphlet entitled, An impartial Review of the Forces lately levied for and against Cleomenes King of SPARTA, giving Characters of some Party-writers.

In another part is inserted a Petition from the underwritten Deputy Lieutenants of the Militia of this County, to his Grace the D. of Newcastle, Lord Lieut. of the County of Middlesex, setting forth the great Burthen which the frequent drawing out the Militia has brought upon the Free-holders and Inhabitants of the City and Liberty of Westminster, which had occasioned Clamours and Complaints among the People, who apprehend Frauds and Abuses in levying and collecting the Money.

They give it as their Opinion, that it is reasonable and prudent to ease the People in this particular; especially considering the Load of necessary Taxes the number of regular Forces, and the tranquillity of the Times; and since the Militia has been called out, of late, on no other account but Reviews and Musters.

They are inform'd that near all the Counties in England are freed from this Burthen, and this seems more particularly intitled to such Relief, in regard they have so many local Taxes, which affect no other County, and is constantly obliged to furnish Quarters for 4000 Men; wherefore they hope it will be more for his Majesty's Service to dispence with calling out the Militia, or raising Trophy Money, unless on some extraordinary occasion.

H. Fetherston, Wm. Pultney, Gideon Harvey, J. Chetwynd, J. Rushout, Nat. Blackerby, Robert Hucks, Fish. Tench, John Laroche John Crosse, Wm. Hucks, P. Jennings.

John Milner.

Fog adds to this some further Arguments, viz. if we have a standing Army, what occasion to muster the Militia? If the Militia is kept up, what need of an Army? and then banters the Expeditions and sham Fights annually made by our train'd Bands.

Craftsman, Sat. May 29. N. 256.

A Treaty of Accommodation.

A Rumour being spread that this Paper was design'd to be dropt, accasioned, the Author supposes, by that Project of a Convention between Him and R. Lyn, Esq; formerly mention'd, says, 'tis utterly false, and is sorry to acquaint the Publick that this Treaty, like others, is come to nothing; to which his old Ally Mr. Fog, has not a little contributed by his strongly remonstrating against this separate Treaty, and seem'd determin'd not to accede to it. However, Mr. D'anvers is resolv'd in one Point to act the Man of Honour, and communicate the most material Articles of the Treaty to the Publick.

Extract of a Treaty of Peace, Friendship and mutual Guaranty concluded at Covent Garden, between Caleb D'anvers, Esq; and Rupert Lyn, Esq; on the 28th of April, 1731.

To all Persons, &c. Be it known that the serene Caleb D'anvers, Esq; Bencher of Gray's Inn, &c. the most puissant Rupert Lye, Esq; Bencher of Lincoln's Inn, &c. and the High and Mighty States General of the United Provinces of Grubstreet, considering the Differences which have long subsisted between the said Societies of Gray's Inn and Lincoln's Inn, have at length agreed upon Conditions which may serve as the Basis for settling these Disputes.

For which Purpose, on the part of Caleb D'anvers, Esq; Mr. Richard Franklin; on the part of the said Rupert Lyn, Esq; Mr. James Roberts, and Mr. John Peele, and on the Part of the said States of Grubstreet ⁂ agreed upon the following Articles and Conditions.

1. That there shall be from this time forward, and evermore, between the contracting Parties, a firm, sincere and invioable Friendship for their common Interest, who shall be oblig'd to a reciprocal Guaranty of all Rights, &c. which they enjoy or ought to enjoy.

2. It having been often remonstrated on the part of Caleb D'anvers, Esq; and the States of Grubstreet, that to establish a lasting Peace, the Liberty of the Press ought to be maintained, and a general Guaranty of their Papers, the said Rupert Lyn, Esq; takes upon him the Guaranty of those Papers, promising to defend and maintain them to the utmost of his Power.

3. It having been frequently represented on the part of the said Rupert Lyn, Esq; that the Peace so long desired, could never be firmly establish'd without putting a stop to all Hostilities against the said Mr. Lyn, the said Caleb D'anvers, and the States of Grubstreet, promise that they will not molest him any longer in the Possession of his Privileges.

To this Treaty are added several separate Articles, among which 'tis stipulated, that the said Rupert Lyn, Esq; will support the Craftsman with all his Force, but on Condition that the said Caleb D'anvers, Esq; does not write or publish any Paper, Doctrine, or Position contrary to the View and Interests of the said Mr. Lyn.

That the said Mr. D'anvers hath undertaken to Guaranty the said Rupert Lyn, Esq; the secure Possession of all his Posts of Honour, &c. yet no longer than the said Mr. Lyn shall appear to act for the Honour and Interest of that Society to which he belongs.

That tho' the States of Grubstreet are mention'd as a contracting Party, yet the Nature of their Paper not allowing their immediate Concurrence thereto; it is therefore agreed between the said D'anvers and Lyn, that they will jointly endeavour to get this Treaty signed and ratify'd by the said States within three Months, &c. &c.

London Journal, May 29. No. 618.

Remarks on the Characters of two Gentlemen drawn in a Letter to the Craftsman. See p. 203, 206.

Mr. Osborne asserts, that the Letter to the Craftsman, was wrote by one of the Gentleman therein defended, which appears from that Sentence in it; We speak ON OUR KNOWLEDGE, when we affirm that the false Imputations which the Accusers bring, are screen'd from absolute Detection, by nothing but the HONOUR OF THE ACCUSED.

This, he says, no Man can speak of his own Knowledge but himself; nor is there a Man upon Earth, but the Accused, who thinks the Accused has any Honour.

This once-noble Person, says Osborne, maintains the Characters of another Gentleman and himself against the accusation of Slanderers, who had said, that a certain Gentleman had left his Friends and Party, and is urged to oppose the M———r by the Stings of disappointed Ambition. But this, says our Author, is not fairly put; for a Man may leave his Friends and Party honourably and for good Reasons; but what is objected to him, is, that he left them without, nay, against Reason when they had shown no disregard to the Constitution, or publick Happiness. There are no signs that his Friends and Party have left their Principles, or chang'd their Practices, but are the same as when he joyn'd them in their publick Actions.

As to the other Character, therein defended, he says, it cannot be blacken'd; scandalous in private Life, and infamous in Publick; who, a little before the Queen's Death, being told, that 'twas apprehended there was an intention to bring in the Pretender, which would make England a Field of Blood, reply'd, He could not help that, England was the best Cockpit in the World, yet now cries aloud for publick Virtue, and sighs for the Danger of his Country. We have his own word for it, the word of a Traytor, that He is a Man of Honour; and that the late King extended his Mercy to him unask'd and unearn'd. The worst Action in the late King's Life; says Osborne, was pardoning him. Forgiveness to him is an Act of Injustice; Mercy to such a Man is Cruelty to the Nation; and we have the greatest probable Evidence, that he discovered the Designs of his Party abroad, and made strong applications to the Regent of France, who wrought upon the good Nature of his late Majesty, to rescue him from that Destruction, to which his Country had so justly devoted him.

Concludes with saying, that he is sorry there is a Gentleman in the Kingdom, who thinks he ought to be his Friend; for a Friend to him, is an Enemy to Mankind.

His Majesty's most gracious Speech to both Houses of Parliament, on Friday May. 7.

My Lords and Gentlemen,

It is a great Pleasure to me, that at the close of this Session of Parliament, I am able to acquaint you, that the hopes I had conceived and given you, of seeing very suddenly a happy period put to the troubles and disorders, which had been so long apprehended, are now by the Treaty sign'd at Vienna, answer'd and accomplish'd.

A Project of a Convention betwixt the Emperor and the Maritime Powers, for accommodating the Differences and Disputes that were subsisting, having been formed, the Treaty is concluded and sign'd by Me and the Emperor, and is now under the Consideration of the States General; the Forms of that Government not admitting a previous Concert in a Negotiation of that nature. And, as this Treaty principally regards the Execution of the Treaty of Seville, it is likewise communicated to the Courts of France and Spain, as Parties to the Treaty of Seville: And I have just receiv'd Advice, that the Ratifications between me and the Emperor are exchanged.

The Conditions and Engagements, which I have enter'd into upon this Occasion, ave agreeable to that necessary Concern, which this Nation must always have for the Security and Preservation of the Balance of Power in Europe; and as the uncertain and violent State of Affairs, Europe was reduc'd, and the Mischiefs of an immediate general War, which began to be thought unavoidable, ave now remov'd: This happy Turn duly improved, with a just regard to our former alliances, which it shall be my Care to preserve, gives us a favourable Prospect of seeing the publick Tranquility re-establish'd.

Gentlemen of the House of Commons.

I return you my Thanks for the effectual Supplies, which you have granted me for the Service of the present Year, and for the proper Disposition you have made of the publick Funds, towards lessening and discharging the National Debt; the remarkable Dispatch and Unanimity which you have shewn at this critical Conjuncture, has added very much to the Credit and Weight of your Proceedings; and you shall find as great a Readiness on my Part to ease the Burthens of my People, as soon as the Circumstance and Situation of Affairs will admit of it, as you have shewn to raise the Supplies necessary for the Service of the Publick.

My Lords and Gentlemen,

I hope at your Return into the Country, you will find all Attempts to raise a Spirit of Discontent among my People, by unjust Clamours and Misrepresentations, vain and ineffectual. All malicious Insinuations to the prejudice of my Measures must surely vanish, when it shall appear, that my first and principal Care has been for the Interest and Honour of this Kingdom: Let it be your Endeavour to remove all groundless Jealousies and Apprehensions, that the Satisfaction of the Nation may be as general, as it is my earnest Desire that their Happiness may be; let all my People, let all Orders of Men enjoy quietly and unenvied, the Rights, Privileges, and Indulgencies, which by Law they are intitled to; let no Innovations disturb any part of my Subjects in the Possesion of their legal Property; let all that are zealous in the Support of Me and my Government, partake in common the Benefits of the present happy Establishment; and let your Good-will to one another be as extensive as my Protection, which all my good and faithful Subjects have a Right to, and may equally depend upon.

At the same time his Majesty gave the Royal Assent to the following Acts of Parliament.

Acts passed 1731.

An Act for raising 1,200,000l. by Annuities and a Lottery—That all Proceedings in Courts of Justice in England, and in the Court of Exchequer in Scotland, shall be in English.—For continuing the Duties for encouraging the coinage of Money.—To prevent Frauds in the Excise, with respect to Starch, Coffee, Tea and Chocolate.—For importing from America Goods not enumerated in any Act of Parl.—For encouraging the making of British Sail-cloth.—To prevent counterfeiting Mediterranean Passes.—To prevent the inhancing the price of Coals in the River Thames, by keeping turn in delivering of Coals there—For obviating a Doubt concerning Letters sent by the Peny-Post to places out of the Cities of London and Westminster, and Borough of Southwark—For the more effectual punishing stealers of Lead, Iron Bars, or any fence belonging to Houses.—For granting an allowance upon the exportation of British Gun-powder.—For more effectual preventing frauds in tenants.—For rebuilding the Church of Gravesend, as one of the 50.—To explain and amend a Clause in an Act for making more effectual several Acts relating to Watermen, &c.—To explain a Clause in an Act of 7th of Q. Anne, for naturalizing foreign Protestants.—To prevent the stealing of Linnen, &c. from places used for whitening, &c.—To enable Ideots and Lunaticks to make Conveyances, &c.—For continuing the Hop market in the City of Worcester, &c.—For reparing the Pier of Newhaven in Sussex.—For repairing the Pier of Ilfordcomb in Devonshire.—The Oxford, Bristol, Preston, and Fulham Road Acts.—And to about 26 private Acts.——

An Abstract of the Speaker's Speech on presenting the Bills.

Your Majesty has perfected the great Work (of Peace) of which all your Subjects will share the benefit, and may you long enjoy the Fruits of it, in the quiet Affections, and gratitude of your People; may you have leasure to do what your Majesty desires, in adorning your Country with those things so desirable; no doubt, Sir, several of them have been under Consideration of your faithful Commons. May you ever find your Parliament ready to effect those great Ends, so that you may be remarkable for the Blessings of Society, for the Honour of Government, and Liberty of the People; and may your faithful Commons always attend the Throne with that Duty with which they now beg leave to present to your Majesty these Bills.

Of the Bankrupts Bill.

Among other Reasons offered for dropping the Bankrupts Bill, one was, That the Privileges of the Peers was in the greatest danger, since a Power was given to the Commssioners, to summons and examine all Persons whatsoever; and if they refuse to give their Oath, they are liable to be imprison'd, by Order of the said Commissioners; and that supposing a Peer be imprison'd, the Judges could not relieve him, insomuch as they could not dispense with the Law.

Of the Act relating to Starch.

Enacts, 1. That from and after June 24, 1731, if any maker of Hair-powder, Perfumer, Peruke-maker, Barber, shall mix any Powder of Alabaster, Plaister of Paris, Talk, Chalk, Whiting, Lime, or other Materials (Rice first made into Starch, and sweet Scents only excepted) with Starch, or Powder of Starch to be used for Hair-powder; or shall use, sell, or offer to sell Powder so mix'd, shall forfeit the sum of 20 l.

2. That all dealers in Hair-powder having in their Possession any of the Materials hereby prohibited, shall forfeit the said Materials and 10 l.

3. And shall enter their Place of Abode and Workhouses at the next chief Office of Excise, on the Penalty of 20 l.

Substance of the Act for Naturalizing &c.

It declares natural born Subjects to all Intents and Purposes, such Children as are or shall be born out of Ligeance of the Crown of Great-Britain, whose Fathers were natural born Subjects, and not at the time of the birth of their Children, in the Service of any foreign Prince at Enmity with us, or attainted of High Treason, or Outlaw'd; and in case their Fathers were under such Attainder, &c. if the Child hath come into Great-Britain or Ireland, and between Nov. 16, 1708, and March 25. 1731, resided there 2 Years, professing the Protestant Religion, or hath been in possession, or taken the Rents and Profits of any Lands, Tenements, &c. one whole Year, or hath convey'd or settled Lands, &c. and any Person claims Title thereto, and hath been in Possession thereof for the space of six Months, between the 16th Day of Nov. 1708, and the 25th of March 1731, every such Child shall be deem'd and taken to be a natural born Subject of the Crown of England.

Of the Act for Englishing the Law.

This Act commences at Lady-day 1733, and contains in Substance, That Writs and Proceedings in any Court of Justice in England, and in the Court of Exchequer in Scotland, shall not only be in the English Language, but shall be written in such a legible Hand as Acts of Parliament are engrossed in, not Court Hand; and the Lines and Words as close as the said Acts usually are, and in Words at length.

For every Offence against this Act, the Transgressor is to forfeit 50 l. to the Prosecutor.

'Tis enacted also, That Mistranslation, Variation in Form by reason of Translation, Mispelling, or Mistake of Clerkship, in Pleadings or Proceedings begun before the 25th of March 1733, being part in Latin and part in English, shall be no Error, nor make void any Proceedings by reason thereof, but that they may at any time be amended, whether in Paper, or on Record, or otherwise, before or after Judgment, on payment of reasonable Cost only. But nothing in this Act is to extend to certifying beyond the Seas, any Case or Proceedings in the Court of Admiralty, in which cases the Commissions and Proceedings may be certified in Latin as formerly.

Finally, 'Tis enacted, That all Statutes for amending the Delays arising from any Jeofails shall extend to all Forms and Proceedings in the Courts of Justice, (except in criminal Cases) where the Proceedings are in English, and that every Error which might be remedied by any Statute of Jeofails, if the Proceedings had been in Latin, shall be, when the Terms are in English, remedy'd by the Statutes now in force for the amendment of any Jeofails.

The Debates relating to the Bill were to this effect, viz. Those who were against it apprehended that great Difficulties would arise in translating the Laws out of Latin into English, and might multiply Law Suits, in regard to the Interpretation of English Words. And a certain Lord, and great Lawyer, said, That if the Bill passed, the Laws ought also to be translated into Welch, since many in Wales did not understand English. To which the Duke of Argyle reply'd, That the Meaning of the Law had been long understood by the Interpreters (Judges) thereof, and would surely be so when translated: That our Prayers were in our native Tongue, that they might be intelligible; and why should not the Laws, wherein our Lives and Properties were concern'd, be so for the same Reason? and added, that he was glad to hear that the said Lord had nothing else to say against the Bill than a Joke. Other Lords instanc'd, That in the Reign of Edward II. an Act of Parliament passed for having the Laws in English, and not in French (as they were then) for the ease of the People. After which a Debate arose about Law Proceedings being wrote in a plain legible Hand, and not in Court Hand, wherein the Earl of Isla said, That in Scotland they were come to that pass, that the Sheriffs knew nothing of the Contents of the Writs they executed; and therefore mov'd, that the Proceedings in the Exchequer in Scotland, which were in the English manner, might be also wrote in a plain legible Hand, which was agreed to; as likewise that Records be wrote in the same Hand as Acts of Parliament are engrossed; and that the Time allowed the Lord Chancellor and Judges for translating the Law into English, be till the Year 1733.

Of the Irish Wooll-Bill.

ON the second reading of the Bill in the House of Lords for preventing the Running of Wooll and Yarn from England and Ireland to foreign Parts, and for taking off the Duties on the importation of Wool, Yarn, &c. Those who spoke against it, alledg'd, that the Importation of Yarn, would be a great Prejudice to our laborious poor; particularly the Spinners, and that it seem'd calculated for the service of Ireland only. Those who were for the Bill observ'd, That formerly 300000 Stone of Wool were imported yearly from Ireland, and then our Manufactures were at the height, and most, or all foreign Markets were supply'd by us, and which we may again do, if we can have the manufacturing of their Wool and Yarn here as formerly. 'Twas likewise remark'd, that some Years ago, when Barbadoes permitted the importation of Sugars from the French, and other Colonies, that Island was the Channel thro' which all Sugars were convey'd; but they no sooner prohibited that Importation, than the foreign Colonies found other Markets for it. And it was the same with regard to Irish Wool and Yarn. At last it was referr'd to the Commissioners of Trade and Plantations, to draw up a Scheme to be laid before the Parliament the next Sessions.

The Daily Post-Boy, May 8.

Extract of a Letter from Cambridge, enquiring on what Grounds some of unblemish'd Characters opposed the late Pension-Bill.

The Writer first gives the Substance of the Oath that every Member was to take, and the Penalty of his neglecting or refusing so to do, and then makes some Remarks upon the whole.

Each Member was to swear to this effect, That he will not directly or indirectly, take or receive any reward or Gratuity from the Crown, during the time of his being a Member: Or, that if he does receive any Gratuity or Reward, he will declare it to the House of Commons within 14 Days. If any Member neglects or refuses to take this Oath; Or, if taking a Gratuity or Reward afterwards, he does not declare it to the House, he is made subject to the Pain and Penalty of Perjury, &c. The same Provision extends to Places and Pensions.

Upon which the Writer observes, that Members might take what Rewards, what Gratuities they please, provided they declare what they take in 14 days to the House of Commons.

Asks what use is to be made of their Declaration? Answers; That must be determin'd by the House of Commons only, and must be discretionary and Arbitrary; for there is nothing in the Bill to direct or limit the Use to be made of it; the consequence of which he fears, would be erecting such a Judicature as would be injurious to the Constitution, encroach upon the Prerogatives of the Crown, and establish a Power unknown to us before.

A Power of approving or disproving what is given by the Crown, and explaining the word indirectly; which added to that of giving Money, determining disputed Elections, calling every Officer in the Kingdom to Account, and other Rights, would make the Commons so uncontroulable, that he can’t see why the Speech of a learned Prelate against the Bill, should deserve so wicked a Construction as has been put upon it. See the said Speech, p. 160.

The Lords undersigned, who protested against the said Bill's being rejected, did not seem to apprehend any bad consequence, but on the contrary conceiv'd that nothing of Weight had been objected to it; that it would be unkind a second Time to refuse to concur with the House of Commons, in what solely regarded their own Members, who seem to think such a Bill wanted. That it is earnestly desired by the People, and very wisely contriv'd, as containing a proper Expedient to preserve the innocence and independency of elected Legislators, by preventing any unjustifiable Influence being made on them, by any of his Majesty’s Servants, through an improper Use of that large Revenue which a Parliament liberal beyond any of their Predecessors hath given him.

Berkshire

Bruce

Plymouth

Bedford

Foley

Gainsborough

Gower

Abagavenny

Willoughby de Brook

Strafford

Northampton

Thanet

Warrington

Aylesford

Abington

Maynard

Bazhurst

Cadogan

Bristol

Coventry

Bridgwater

Boyle

Oxford and Mortimer

Ancaster.

Towards the Conclusion of the Sessions upon Advice of the Treaty being signed with the Emperor, a Motion was made in the House of Lords, and the Question put, to address his Majesty that the would be pleased for the ease of his Subjects of this Kingdom, to give Orders for discharging the Hessian Troops in the British Pay, it passed in the Negative 73 against 22; in the H. of Commons 210 against 89.

l. s.

Amount of the National Debts on the 21st of Dec. 9795755 6

Ditto Dec. 31-1730. 49301855 6

Encreased between the said Terms. 550000 6

Paid off within the said time. 1043900 6

Produce of the sinking Fund in that time. 1164190 12

Money issued towards discharging the National Debt. 1000513 16

Charge for the Service for 1730. 2655462 8

Grants for the same. 2521149 14

Deficiencies of the Grants, Anno 1730. 134312 14

Produce into the Exchequer of the Land Tax, at 4s. per Pound for the Year 1727. 1980888 11

For the Year 1729, at 3s. 1393430 10

For the Year 1730, at 2s. 306796 10

For the Year 1723, at 2s. 992187 14

Of Mr. Wood's Iron Project.

Mr. Wood's Operators failing in their last Trial at Chelsea the 11th instant, their Iron breaking to pieces when it came under the great hammer; to excuse it they had given out, that the undermention'd spectators of the work poyson'd the Iron; therefore to satisfy the publick of the falsehood of this Insinuation they made the following affidavit, viz.

Wm. Godfrey, Rog. Woodhouse, John Grennage, and Peter Fuller, severally make oath, that on the 11th instant they were permitted to watch and observe the Workmen, to prevent frauds; that they (the deponents) put nothing into the Furnace, or amongst the Coal, Ore, or Metal, or did any thing to prejudice the Operation; nor had they an Opportunity, Mess. Woods and their Men standing by all the time; and that they are ready to be examined upon Oath touching any matter relating to the said Experiment: to which they add, it is no new thing for Mr. Wood's Iron to break under the hammer.

Of the PENNY POST Act.

The Act relating to the Penny-Post confirms the practice of taking a Penny for delivery of each Letter out of the Cities of London and Westminster, and the Borough of Southwark; the Legality of which was before doubted.

* * *

* * *

THE

Monthly Intelligencer,

MAY, 1731.

* * *

Saturday, May 1.

Ended the Sessions at the Old Bayley on Middlesex side, when Nine Persons received sentence of Death, viz. James Berry for Horse-stealing, Rich. Cooper and Francis Woodmarsh for Murder; Richard Trap, alias Blue Dick for the Highway; John Peverly, a Lad about 13, for stealing 48 Guineas; Robert Butler, and Francis Lynn, alias Glynn, for a Street-Robbery; James Owen for stealing a Bank Note; and Ambrose Newport for stealing a Mare.

Monday, May 3.

Theodore Willet was try'd at the Old Bayley on the Statute of the 18th Hen. 8. for embezzling the sum of 8000 l. delivered to him by his Masters Mess. Woodwards Bankers, on the 3d of March last. But it being allow'd that he had paid and receiv'd great sums of Money since that time, and not being prov'd he had imbezzel'd 40 s. of that individual Money, the Jury unanimously agreed, it did not come within that Statute, so acquitted him of the Indictment.

Wednesday, May 5.

Winchcomb Howard Packer, Esq; chosen Knight of the Shire for the County of Berks, in the room of his Father.

Thursday May 6.

The Lords of the Admiralty chose 104 poor disabled Seamen for Greenwich Hospital, which makes the Number 900.

Most of the Admirals and general Officers of the Navy that were in Town, sign'd a printed Scheme agreed unto by their Lordships, for Relief of Widows and Children belonging to the Commission and Warrant Officers of the Navy, by the Abatement of 3 d. in the Pound out of each Officers Wages.

The Lord Vis. Lonsdale resign'd his Place as Constable of the Tower.

Friday, May 7.

An end put to the Session of Parliament, which was prorogued to the 27th of July.

Miss Holliday, for whose Benefit a Play was acted last night at the Theatre in Lincolns Inn-Fields, received from the Royal Family, over and above the usual Present, a large Gold Medal, weighing about 50 Guineas, with the Busto of her Majesty as Electress of Hanover on each side.

Capt. Bulfinch Lamb, late Factor for the Royal African Company at Jacquin on the Coast of Guinea, went to Court with Adomo Oronooko Tomo, sent by the Grand Trudo Audato Povesaw Tangerenio Surveveveto Ene Motte Adde Powa Powlo Cuttullo Necresy, King of Dawhomay, and Emperor of Pawpaw, who lately conquer'd the great Kingdoms of Ardah and Whidah; with the said Emperor's Letters to his Majesty, Capt. Lamb, was taken Captive at the Conquest of Ardah, and was carried before the Emperor, who, having never seen a white Person before, he detain'd him ever since, us'd him with great Respect, and enjoined him to return.

The Lords of the Treasury directed that the first Payment for Tickets in the Lottery, shall be made on or before June 1, and the second Payment on or before August 20.

The E. of Ashburnham resign'd his Place of Gentlemen Usher of the Bed-Chamber to his R. H. the Prince on account of his being extreamly afflicted with the Gout.

Wednesday, May 12.

The Court removed from St. James's to Richmond, where the Royal Barges were ordered to attend during their Majesty's Residence there.

Friday, May 14.

Richard Cooper, Fra. Woodmash, Ja. Berry, Amb. Newport, and Ric. Trap, alias Blue Dick, were executed at Tyburn.

George Robinson, of Lombardstreet Esq; chosen Representative in Parliament for Great Marlow in Buckinghamshire.

A Gentleman presented to St. Bartholemew's Hospital a Bank Note for 500 l.

Monday, May 17.

Edward Lisle, Esq; was elected Verdurer for the New Forest in Hamshire, having 2613 Votes, and Henry Knollys Esq; but 1995.

A Squadron of 17 Ships of the Line were ordered to be fitted out for the Mediterranean, under the Command of Sir Cha. Wager, Sir George Walton, Vice-Admiral, and Rear-Admiral, Balchen, cosisting of

SECOND RATES

Ships Names. Capt. Names. Guns Men.

Namure Falkinham 90 680

THIRD RATES.

Princess Amelia Reddish 80 520

Cornwall Lord Forbes 80 520

Norfolk Roberts 80 520

Berwick Norbury 70 440

Hampton Court, Ld Vere Beaucl. 70 440

Grafton Haddock 70 440

Kent O Brian 70 440

Edinborough Sir Chal. Ogle 70 440

Oxford Brown 70 440

FOURTH RATES.

Turk Vanbrugh 60 365

Canterbury Hooke 60 365

Sunderland Man 60 365

Exeter Durell 60 365

Dreadnought Gaddis 60 365

Portland Rouzier 50 280

Romney Medley 50 280

Tuesday, May 18.

A Board of Treasury sat and appointed the following Gentlemen Commissioners of the Lottery for this Year.

Peter Wentworth

Grey Longueville

James Cresset

Joseph Martin

Charles Shelly

William Vincent

Roger Tuckfield

Francis Clark

Edward Compton

Christopher Lowe

John Bagnall

Thomas Baynton

Samuel Bull

Thomas Cornwallis

Mark Frecker

Peter Le Heup

John Felton

Edward Dennis

Claudius Devins

Kenelm Fawkener

Keremiah Hall

Richard Hammond

James Gambier

Gabriel Johnston

William Huggins

Mathew Kenrick

Wm. Kitchingham

William Leigh

Thomas Lennard

Robert Manning

George Morley

Mallory Pierson

Christopher Rhodes

James Rivet

Thommas Ronne

Henry Weston

Wiliam Sharpe

Edward St. Hill

John Savury

John Snow

Thomas Whitaker

Leonard Welsted

Edmund Beagham

James Lidderdale

Esquires.

Wednesday, May 19.

The Treasurer of the Corporation of the Charity for Relief of the poor Widows and Children of Clergymen, received from an unknown Hand, 500 l. for the Use of that Charity.

Near 100,000 Pieces of eight brought from the Spanish West-Indies, on acccount of several Merchants of this City, were paid into the Bank.

Dr. Peploe, Bp. of Chester, preach'd the Spittle Sermon at St. Brides, before the Lord Mayor and Aldermen and Sheriffs.

John Cambel was executed at Edinborough, for counterfeiting the 20 s. Notes of the Scotch Bank. He confessed the forging of 500, and counterfeiting the Gold and Copper Coin.

Thursday, May 20.

George Venables Vernon, Esq; elected Member of Parliament for Litchfield, in the room of Walter Chetwynd, Esq; who is made Governor of Barbadoes.

Friday, May 21.

The Rev. Dr. Mangey preach'd before the Lord Mayor, Aldermen &c, at St. Brides's Church.

Sunday, May 23.

Col. Williamson of the Tower, entertain'd at Dinner all the Poor Soldiers of Chelsea College who served in the same Regiment with him in Flanders, and afterwards gave each of them a Shilling.

Tuesday, May 25.

Mr. Payne an Apothecary presented the Arch Bishop of Canterbury two Greek Manuscripts of great Antiquity; one of the New Testament, the other of the Acts of the Apostles and the Epistles, being sent from Turkey by his Brother the Rev. Mr Thomas Payne, Chaplain to the British Nation at Constantinople.

Richard Arundel, Esq; rechosen Member of Parliament for Knaresborough in Yorkshire, his Seat being vacated by his accepting the Offices of Keeper of his Majesty's private Roads, &c.

Wednesday, May 26.

A Tipstaff of the L. C. J. Raymonds, was committed by his Lordship to the King's-Bench Prison, upon a Complaint against him for Extortion in the Execution of his Office.

Thursday May 27.

The Sum of 1500l. ordered to the Managers of the State Lottery, which will begin drawing in October next.

At a Meeting of the Royal Society, were elected Fellows, Sir Joseph Ayloffe, Bar. Sig. Giralamo Ghiugtini, a Florentine Physician; and Mr. Bentinck (Uncle to the present, and Brother to the last D. of Portland) was proposed as a Peer's Son, and Elected. Several Experiments of Electricity were shewn by Mr. Grey, and Mr. Hadley offered an Instrument he had invented to discover the Longitude; a Discovery of some ancient Sepulchres, near the Cathedral of Lincoln, was read; also a concise Account of Mr. Miller's useful Dictionary of Gardening.

Sir William Wentworth chose Member of Parliament for Malton in Yorkshire, in the room of Wardel George Westby, Esq; now a Commissioner of the Customs.

Monday, May 31.

This Evening was a Ball at the Princess Royal's at Kew-Green, on account of the Birth Day of the Princess Amelia and Carolina, which was the Day before.

Japheth Crook, alias Peter Stranger, received Sentence to stand in the Pillory, have both his Ears cut off, his Nose slit, his Body imprison'd for Life, and his Goods and Chattles forfeited to the Crown; for forging Writings to an Estate.

The Lady Lawley was sentenced to pay 300 Marks, and to be imprison'd one Month for spiriting away an Evidence against him.

* * *

BIRTHS.

May 7.The Lady of Lord Boyle, eldest Son to the Earl of Orrery, was delivered of a Daughter at her Lord's House in New Bindstreet.

26. The newborn Son of the Lord Malpas, was baptized at his Lordship's House in Arlington-street, by the Name of Frederick, the Pr. of Wales, and the E. of Grantham standing Godfathers, the Lady Ann Cholmondeley Godmother.

12. The Lady of the E. of Plymouth deliver'd of a Son, since baptized in the Church of St. George Hannover Square, by the Name of Other Lewis Windsor.

DEATHS.

May 2.THE Marquiss of Brackley, eldest Son to the D. of Bridgewater, in the 6th Year of his Age, dy’d of the Small Pox inoculated.

The Relict of Sir Charles Gerrard, Bart. (at Hampstead); she was Daughter to Lord Seymour, and Sister to the Duke of Somerset.

The Relict of Thomas Andrews, of Ormond-street, Esq; at the Bath. She was Daughter of the late William Westbrook, of Ferring, in the County of Sussex; Esq; formerly Member of Parl. for the Boroughs of Arundel and Bramber.

3. Mrs. Brodrick, Aunt to the Lord Middleton, at her House in Staffordshire.

3. Henry Boucher, Esq; formerly in the Commission of Peace for Westminster.

Dr. Wiliam Mallens, lately at Salisbury.

7. Mr. Francis Williams, Clerk to the Coopers Company.

The Relict of Francis Wead, Esq; at Epsom in Surry.

Philip Wheake, Esq; lately at Grand Cairo, where he was Consul.

10. Miss Veers, at her House in Great Ormond-street’; she left 50l. to the Charity-School of St. George’s Queens Square.

William Harvey, Esq; at the Seat of his Uncle, the Hon. Edward Harvey, of Comb, in the County of Surrey.

The Rev. Dr. Goddard; one of the Canons of Windsor.

Mrs Salmon, at Hitchen in Hertfordshire. She was the relict of the Rev. Mr. Salmon; formerly Minister of Mepsol in Bedfordshire. She left 3 Sons, Nathaniel, a Clergyman in Essex, Thomas Salmon, well known for his Modern History; the third a Clergyman in Devonshire, and a Daughter in the Bishop of Canterbury's Family. Note, This Gentlewoman was not Daughter to Serjeant Bradshaw, who sign’d the Warrant for executing K. Charles I. as the Publick Papers asserted.

James Medlycott, Esq; formerly a Matter in Chancery, and Member in several Parliaments for Milborn-Port in Somersetshire.

12. The Lady of Sir Clement Cottrell, Kt. Master of the Ceremonies,

13. The Rev. Mr. John Lehunt, Master of the King’s School at Canterbury, and Vicar of Brookland in Kent, by a Fall from his Horse.

Sir Nicholas Hooper, a Serjeant at Law, at Barnstaple, in Devonshire, which Borough he represented in several Parliaments.

17. Dr. Samuel Bradford, (the 90th) Bishop of Rochester, Dean of Westminster, and Dean of the most honourable Order of the Bath, Master of Corpus Christi College in Cambridge, and one of the Society for propagating the Gospel in foreign Parts; consecrated Bishop of Carlisle, Jan. 1. 1718, and July 19. promoted to the See of Rochester, in the room of Dr. Atterbury, who was depriv'd and banished.

19. The Wife of Christopher Wyvil of Hatton Garden; Esq; Niece to the late Adm. Leake.

According to a Letter from Jamaica, Col. Hays, Maj. Brandreth, Capt. Molloy, Capt. Ballandine, and several inferior Officers of the Regiments that imbark’d at Gibralter tor that Island, have dy’d lately there.

The Lady of Sir Strange Josselin, Bar. at Hide in Hertfordshire.

——— Tallboy, Esq; a Justice of Peace for Middlesex.

20. The Rev. Mr. Thomas Cooke, Minister of St. Bennets Paul's Wharf, where being situated near the Commons, he had solemniz'd about 13,000 Marriages.

21. The Rev. Dr. William Norton, Preacher of Grays Inn, Vicar of Deptford, in Kent, and Rector of Walkern in Hertfordshire.

Jezreel Jones, Esq; formerly Consul at Algiers, and many Years Interpreter to the Embassadors from those Parts.

John Ogburn, Esq; Brother to Sir William Ogburn, Carpenter to the Office of Ordnance in the Tower.

22. James Brown, Esq; Page of Honour to Her Majesty.

The Abbot Fitz James, at Paris, Son to the Duke of Berwick, aged 19.

23. James Mines, Esq; at Greenwich.

Mr. William Aubery, Son-in-Law to the late William Penn, Esq;.

24. Robert Gordon, Merchant in Aberdeen; a little before his Death he mortify'd his Estate to the sum of 10000 l. for erecting an Hospital towards the Maintenance and Education of Boys of the City of Aberdeen.

Mrs Astel, Author of several ingenious Pieces, at Chelsea.

25. The Dutchess de la Force, Grandmother to the present Duke de la Force, a Mareschal and Peer of France, at her House in St. James's Place.

Peter L'Abbe, Esq; Steward to the D. of Richmond.

Francis Cudworth Massam, Esq; only Brother to the Lord Massam. He was Accomptant General to the Court of Chancery, Foreign Apposer in the Court of Exchequer, and one of the Masters in Chancery.

Peregrine Hyde Osborne, D. of Leeds, Marquis of Carmarthen, E. of Danby, Viscount Latimer, Baron Osborne, Viscount Dumblane, and Bart. in which Honours he is succeeded by his Son Thomas now D. of Leeds aged 19.

The Rev. Mr. Joshua Smith, Rector of St. Mary Aldermanbury, and Lecturer of St. Mary le Bow.

Mr. Fawkes, noted for his Dexterity of Hand, said to die worth 10,000 l.

Edmund Gibson, Esq; Fellow of Clare-Hall, Cambridge, eldest Son of the Bp of London.

Mr John Caswell, a New England Merch. at his house in Queen-street, Cheapside.

25. At Edinburgh, the Countess Dowager of Stairs, in an advanc'd Age.

Thomas Evans, Esq; surveyor of Tobacco at the Custom House, a Place worth 200 l. a Year.

26. The Lady of Serjeant Webb, at his Chambers in the King's Bench Walks, Inner Temple.

The Lady Kennedy, in Childbed, at Maidstone in Kent.

30 — Prescott, Esq: head Clerk of the Navy Office, at his House on Tower-hill.

MARRIAGES.

May 1.Sir Wiliam Sanderson, Bart. Deputy-Usher of the Black Rod, marry'd to Mrs. Biguel, a Relation of the Lord Visc. Falmouth.

Mr. Rawlinson, Wine Merchant to his Majesty —^— to the first Countess Dowager of Winchelsea.

Lord Polworth, eldest Son to the E. of Marchmount, —^— to Miss Ann Western.

4 Thomas Clutterbuck, Esq; late Secretary to the Lord Carteret as Lord Lieut. of Ireland —^— to a Sister of the E. of Dysart.

M. Talman, the German Resident at Constantinople, to the eldest Daughter of Mr. Robert Constantine, an English Merchant there.

14. ——— Ogle, of Northumberland, Esq; to the Relict of Ralph Scourfield, Esq; a Lady of 30,000 l.

20. John Shafto, Esq; Member of Parliament for the City of Durham, to Miss Jackson, only Daughter of Thomas Jackson, Esq; Town Clerk of this City.

26. Mrs Elizabeth Steel, Daughter of the late Sir Richard Steel, for whom a Duel was lately fought at the Bath, was there married to James Philips of Penty-Park, in Pembrookshire, Esq;.

27. The Rev. Dr Young, an ingenious Author, to the Hon. Lady Betty Leigh, Sister to the E. of Litchfield.

PROMOTIONS.

The Countess Delorain appointed Governess to the Princesses Mary and Louisa.

10. Mr. Richard Robins of the Accomptant Office, appointed Auditor of the India Accounts.

Walter Burton, Esq; sworn one of the Six Clerks in Chancery, in the room of his Father who resigned.

Mr. Smith, Foreman of the King's Yard at Deptford, made Master Smith of that at Sheerness.

The Bishop of Durham appointed Ld. Lieut. of Durham.

2 Thomas Williams, Esq; Brother to Sir Nicholas, made Chamberlain and Chancellor in the several Counties of Carmarthen, Pembroke and Cardigan.

Earl Ferrers is appointed Lord Lieut. and Custos Rot. of the County of Stafford.

57. Thomas Henrietta, Esq; appointed a Lieut. Capt. in Brig. Gen. Pocock's Regiment of Foot.

19. Lieut. Knowle presented to a Company in the E. of Scarborough's Reg. of Guards.

18. Edward Hammond, Esq; Nephew to Sir Robert Walpole, appointed Foreign Apposer in the Court of Exchequer, in the room of Fr. Cudworth Massam, Esq; deceased.

21. Mark Thurston, Esq; Master in Chancery, appointed Accomptant-General in the said Court, in the room of Fr. Cudworth Massam, Esq; deceased.

Mr. Thomas Beaumont, made Page of the Presence to her Majesty.

Mr. Robert Nicholson, Pewterer, appointed Purveryor to his Majesty in the room of James Nichelson, Esq; deceased.

Stephen Pointz, Esq; made Governor to his R. Highness the Duke.

Serjeant Urling made Deputy-Recorder of London.

Thomas Spicer, Esq; Secretary of the Presentations under the Lord Chancellor, made a Master in Chancery in the room of Fr. Cudw. Massam, Esq; deceas'd.

Ecclesiastical Preferments conferr'd on the following Reverend Gentlemen.

Dr. Niblet presented to the Rectory of Lithburne in Warwickshire.

Mr. Smaldridge, Son of the late Bishop of Bristol, appointed prebendary of Worcester,

Mr. Robinson, —— to the Rectory of Wickcliffe, in the Diocess of Chester.

Dr. Lynch, collated to the Rectories of Ickham and Bishopsburne, with the Chapels of Barham and Well, in Kent.

Mr. Thomas Guilding, famous for his fine Voice, and great skill in Musick, placed Vicar of Lincoln Minster.

Robert Bluet, of Holcomb-Court, in Devonshire, Esq; a young Gentleman of an antient Family, and of 2000 l. per Ann. having lately taken Holy Orders, was presented to the Rectory of Berrynarber, in that County, upwards of 300 l. per Ann.

Mr. Davis, presented to the Vicarage of Great Barlong in Essex.

21. Mr. Grey (Author of the Abridgment of Bp. Gibson's Codex, and of Treatise on the Art of Memory) was made a Dr. in Divinity in full Convocation at Oxford.

Mr. Morrison, Lecturer of St. Bennet-Fink, presented to the Living of St. Bennet Paul's Wharf.

25. Mr. Sandford, chosen Rector of Aldermanbury, in the room of Mr. Smith deceased.

Mr. Bate, Fellow of St. John's College Cambridge, late Chaplain at Paris to Horatio Walpole, Esq; presented to the Rectory of the New Church at Deptford, vacant by the Death of Dr. Norton.

26. Mr. Gough, chosen Lecturer for the United Parishes of St. Mary le Bow, St. Pancras Soper-lane, and Allhallows Honey-lane.

Christned Males 828, Females 843, In all 1671.

Buried Males 1155, Females 1126, In all 2281.

Prices of Goods, &c. in London. Hay 4 l. a load.

Coals per Chaldron 25 to 28

New Hops per Hun. 2l. to 4l.

Old Hops 30 to 40

Rape Seed 10 l. to 12 l. 10s.

Lead the Fodder 19 Hun. 1 half on board, 16 l. 10 s.

Tin in Blocks 4 l. 00 s.

Ditto in Bars 4 l. 02 s. exclusive of 3s. per Hun. Duty.

Copper Eng. best 5 l. 14 s. per C.

Ditto ordinary 4 l. 14 s. per C.

Ditto Barbary 3 l. to 4 l. 00 s. per C.

Iron of Bilboa 15 l. 10 s. per Tun

Dit of Sweden 16 l. 10 s. per Ton

Tallow 40 s. per C. or 5d. Far. p. lb.

Country Tallow 1 l. 17 s. 0 d.

Cochineal 17 s. 9 d. per lb.

Grocery Wares.

Rasins of the Sun 24 s. 0 d per C.

Ditto Malaga Fraises new

Ditto Smirna new 17 s.

Ditto Alicant 15 s.

Ditto Liyra new 16 s. 0 d.

Ditto Belvedera 18 s.

Currants old none.

Ditto new

Prunes French 17 s.

Figs 18s.

Sugar Powder best 59 s. per C.

Ditto second sort 49 s. per C.

Loaf Sugar double refine 09 d. Farthing per lb.

Ditto single refin. 60 s. to 70 s. per c.

Cinamon 7 s. 9 d.

Cloves 9 s. 1 d.

Mace 16 s. 6 d. per lb.

Nutmegs 8 s. 7 d. per lb.

Sugar Candy white 12 d. to 17 d.

Ditto brown 6 d. Half penny per lb.

Pepper for Home consump 14 d.

Ditto for exportation 10 d. H penny

Tea Bohia fine 12 s. to 14 s. per lb.

Ditto ordinary 10 s. per lb.

Ditto Conga 12 s. to 16 s. per lb.

ditto Pekue 18 s. per lb.

ditto Green fine 12 s. to 15 s. per lb.

ditto Imperial 14 s. per lb.

ditto Hyson 35 s.

Drugs by the lb.

Balsam Peru 16 s.

Cardamoms 3 s. 4 d.

Camphire refin'd 23 s.

Crabs Eyes 22 s.

Jallop 5 s.

Manna 1 s. 6 d. a 2 s. 6 d.

Mastick white 4. s. 6 d.

Opium 10 s. 00 d.

Quicksilver 4 s. 4 d.

Rhuburb 18 s. to 20 s.

Sarsaparilla 3 s. 00 d.

Saffron Eng. 26 s. 00 d.

Wormseeds 4 s. 6 d.

Balsam Capiva 2 s. 10 d.

Balsam of Gilliad 14 s. 00 d.

Hypocacuana 5 s. 6 d.

Ambergreece per oz. 14 s. 00 d.

Wine, Brandy, and Rum.

Oporto red, per T. 32 l. a 34 l.

ditto white 40 l.

Sherry 26 l.

Canary new 26 l.

ditto old 36 l.

Florence 3 l.

French red 36 l. a 50 l.

ditto white 20 l.

Mountain malaga old 30 l.

ditto new 24 L.

Brandy Fr. per Gal. 6s. to 6s. 6d.

Rum of Jam. 6 s. to 7 s. 6 d.

ditto Lew. Islands 6s. to 10s.

BANKRUPTS.

Charles Jorden, of Gateshead, Durham, Mercer.

John Timmings, of Shoreditch, Middlesex, Grocer.

James Austin, of London, Carman.

John Fryer, of Horton, Dorsetshire, Mercer.

Richard Hambridge, of Stow in the Wold, Glocestershire, Tallow-Chandler.

Alexander Gray, of London, Linnen Draper.

Bircher Meddin, Southwark, Surry, Salter.

John Dykes, Deptford, Kent, Oylman.

Elizabeth Dent, Widow, London, Hosier.

Benjamin Cole, of Bloomsbury Market, Middlesex, Linnen Draper.

Robert Edwards, of Colchester, Essex, Bay-maker,

Elenor Rogers, Widow, of London, Milliner.

Plantation Affairs.

From New England, 'tis advised, that Governor Belcher having convok'd a new general Assembly, acquainted them with his Majesty's Commands of settling a Salary upon the Governor, and represented the dangerous Consequences, their Refusal, and his Return to Great Britain, might produce.

But notwithstanding the Governor's utmost Endeavours to persuade them into a Compliance, they have positively refused it.

Barbadoes Feb. 19. A French Man of War has taken at Sancta Lucia 9 or 10 British Vessels, on Pretence of that Island belonging to the Crown of France. The Crop here is like to be very small because of the Drought.

At a meeting of the General Assembly, Feb. 15. a Committee was appointed to prepare a Representation of the Grievances of the Island; who reported, that in a Petition sent over to Great Britain, it was set forth, That in the Year 1722, when Governor Worsley took the Administration upon him, and many Years before, the Inhabitants have been harrass'd with Parties and Divisions; to end which, a Salary of 6000 l. per. Ann. was settled on the Governor; that the Island had reap'd no Benefit from this Act of Generosity; the publick Good had been neglected, and no Grievances redressed; the Militia neglected; the Fortifications gone to ruin; the publick Stores imbezzled and wasted, and all Officers busied in nothing but how to raise their Fortunes on the Ruins of the People; and in general accuse the Governor with a great deal of Male-Administration.

After this Report of the Committee was read, an Address of that House was order'd to be prepar'd to be laid before his Majesty pursuant to the said Report.

Antigua, March 28. There is a great want of Rain, little Sugar, and many Ships waiting for it; and if Rain don't fall there will be no Crop next Year. The young Canes are much burnt. The Crops are very short at Nevis and Mountserrat. The Ponds are almost dry; and Water so scarce, that a Pail of Cistern-Water is sold for 3s.

The last Letters from Jamaica advise, that Adm. Stewart having received Orders to cruize upon the Spaniards, as well Merchant Ships as Guarda Costas, the Traders and Merchants there residing, had represented unto him the many Inconveniencies of such a Procedure; and desired him to suspend the Execution of that part of his Order which related to the taking of Spanish Merchant Ships, and only cruize on the Guarde Costas.

Substance of the first Speech of Robert Johnson, Esq, Governor of South Carolina, to the Council and Assembly on the 6th of January, 1731.

That the King had appointed him Governor of that province; he did not doubt but they would chearfully concur with his Majesty's Council in concerting Measures for the support of his Government and the good of the Province, which was capable of being one of the soft considerable on the main Land.

That his Majesty, at their Request, and at a great Expence, had purchased 7 Eighths of the late Lord Proprietor's Charter, whereby they were become under his immediate Government, and whereby they enjoy'd safety in Trade, Protection at Sea by his Ships of War; at Land, by an Independant Company of Foot.

Assures them, that his own Interest among them, is the least Motive to do all in his Power to further the Prosperity of a Province in which he had spent so great a part of his Life.

Injoyns them to put in execution the Laws against Immorality and Impiety, and recommends them to put more and encourage the publick Schools, particularly that near Charles Town.

Tells them, the ruinous Condition of Charles Town, Johnson's Fort, and others, requir'd immediate Repair,

Acquaints them with the Treaty which his Majesty had order'd the Lords of Trade to settle with the Indians, whom he had brought safe back with a considerable Present.

Lastly, That his Maiesty had instructed him to encourage useful Manufactures, and that the Parliament had already given a Discount upon Hemp.

To which (Speech) they return'd very dutiful and loyal Answers, and there is a perfect Harmony betwixt him and them, the Assembly having fixed a Salary on him agreeable to his Desire, and done every thing that was asked, being greatly pleased with the Change from a dependency on the late Proprietors to his Majesty.

They have also transmitted a very loyal Address to his Majesty, acknowledging his Bounty in remitting their Arrears for Quit Rents, and his Goodness in continuing the Bills of Credit, for enlarging their Trade, &c.

* * *

The treaty lately concluded at Vienna, of which we gave an account in our last number, having been communicated to the States-general, they have made the following remarks upon it, which are the subject of their High-Mightinesses present deliberations, viz.

1. That with regard to the mutual garanty mentioned in the 1. Article, a declaration may be made, that it is to be understood only of the territories now actually possessed by the contracting parties; and that the contingent be stipulated, which every one is to furnish.

2. That for what concerns the pragmatick Sanction, the Emperor should declare that he would not marry the arch dutchess to any prince that can prejudice the balance of Europe.

3. That the said guaranty shall extend only to the successors of the present Emperor.

4. That all the territories which formerly belonged to the King of Spain, Charles II. and are now under the dominion of his imperial Majesty, shall be prohibited trading not only to the east and west Indies, but also to Africa.

5. That the number of tons be specify'd of the two ships that are to go once for all to bring home the company's effects.

6. That a time be fixed for the return of these two vessels.

7. That the said ships be obliged to return directly to the port of Ostend, without touching at any other.

8. That no ship of what nation so ever she be, coming from the Indies, shall be permitted to enter the harbour of Ostend.

9. With respect to the tariff of duties to be settled upon merchandize, brought by the Hollanders into the Austrian Netherlands, it shall make a separate article by it self.

Extract of a Letter from Utrecht concerning the States-General acceding to the Treaty of Vienna.

After some general Reasoning, two Objections to the Guaranty of the pragmatical Sanction are introduced.

1. France will take it in Dudgeon. 2. We cannot enter into it without disgusting the Princes of the Empire.

The first is answer'd thus; the Engagement proposed is not contrary to those we (the Dutch) have entred into with France, we are at liberty to enter into this, and no Injury is thereby done to that Crown and she has the less Reason to take Exception at it, because by the 3d Article of the Quadruple Alliance, she her self guaranty'd to his Imperial Majesty, and to all his Descendants without distinction of Sex, all his Countries and Estates.

With regard to the second Objection there are only the Electors of Saxony and Bavaria, that can pretend to find fault with our Guaranty, nor can they do it with any Reason since they have in the most solemn manner, renounced all Pretensions to the Emperor's Succession, and have since guranty'd all the Hereditary Countries whatsoever.

But what do we concede, or how far do we engage our selves by the Guaranty? Only to hinder the Ruin of the House of Austria; that is to say, to maintain the Balance of Europe, upon which our safety depends.

Rome, Letters from Turin give us to understand, that their sovereign has forbid his Bishops to ordain any Priest without his participation; which, if true, will much increase the bitterness of our court against the proceedings of that.

Constantinople, March 26. On the 13th broke out a 2d Rebellion, which encreased to 2 or 3000 Men; but the Grand Visier and Janizary Aga sallied out of the Seraglio by day-break, with Mahomet's Standard, accompanied by most of the Grand Seignor's Attendants. They marched towards the Rebels rendezvous at Ermedan, and in the way met a party of about 250, who defended themselves very bravely at first, but were soon overpowered. This struck such a Terror in the Rebels Camp, that they run to the Janizaries Chambers for protection; which made it clear to the Ministry, that the chief of the Soldiery were against them; wherefore they have broke most of the Officers, and dispatched near 5000 Janizaries up the Black-sea in their way to Persia.

Vienna. May 26. The last Courier which arrived here from Seville, did not bring the approbation of our Treaty with England; and we are told it meets with great difficulties at the Court of Spain, upon account of the Guaranty of the Places to every one now in Possession; for this seems to cut off all the Spaniards hopes of recovering Gibraltar and Port-Mahon. Some Advices from Constantinople, make mention of a third Revolt, in which the Janizaries plundered the Grand Vizier's House.

Foreign Occurrences.

The Sieur de la Motte underwent the 25th past, at Paris, the torture of eight Pots of Water, which he swallow'd, confessing nothing. The Judge ask'd him if he had not some concern with la Bruin, Widow of a Coffeeman, whom he was accused of having murder'd: He answer'd, Sir, she was not handsome enough for that; besides, if I had killed all the Husbands I have made Cuckolds, I should have enriched the Undertakers of Funerals.

At Orbitello in Tuscany, a Shepherd having, for want of Pasture, lost 380 Sheep out of a Flock of 400, in Despair, kill'd the remaining 20, and then hang'd himself.

At Anger in France, a young Lady being affrighted at the sudden Death of her Gallant in bed with her, running out of the House in her shift, was torn to pieces by a large Mastiff Dog in the Yard.

A Relation of the Earthquakes which happened at Foggia, in the Kingdom of Naples.

The first Shock was felt about four in the Morning, March 20: It was so violent and so sudden, that most Part of the Buildings were overturned, and many People buried under the Ruins, before the Inhabitants perceived there was an Earthquake. This first shock lasted five minutes, and a minute after they felt a second shock as violent, so that the Water in the Wells, tho' 30 or 40 Foot deep, issued out of the Top, and caused considerable Inundations.

It is not possible to express the consternation of the inhabitants: those who had the good fortune not to be crushed by the fall of the houses, saved themselves as well as they could. The thick clouds of dust, the confusion of the night, the embarrassment of the stones and rubbish, the cries and groans of those who were half buried, increased the horror with which they were seized, especially when at break of day there were seen in the plain, men, women, and children almost naked, pale, trembling, and covered with dust. They were scarce got thither but a third shock happened, as violent as the two former, which compleated the destruction of that unhappy city. As day appeared the cries and groans of the inhabitants were redoubled; children were seeking their parents, and parents their children; and that which rendered them more sensible of their misery, was a piercing cold by which their limbs were benumbed, there are only the convent of Capuchins, that of the conservatory of Penitent Nuns, and the Bishop's palace, and some small houses in the square of Majore, standing. The number of persons buried under the ruins appears to be 4600, and they reckon that in that and some following days they had no less than 50 shakes.

CASUALTIES.

May 1.A Farmer's Son at Bristom Causey, having stay'd out late, lay in his Father's Barn, which took fire, and he was burnt with it.

2. As Mr. Richards, Clerk of Guildhall Chapel, was viewing a Windmill by Bow, the Sweeps turning of a sudden, dash'd out his Brains.

3. A Man run over and kill'd in Oldstreet.

3. A Man was found smother'd in a Boghouse in Sun Yard Bishopsgatestreet.

A Gentleman's Son kill'd in a Windmill at Wymondham, in Norfolk.

Eight Houses, with Barns, Stables and Malt-house, and 300 Quarters of Malt consumed by Fire at Uppingham in Rutland.

15. A Lad fell into Fleet Ditch and was smother'd.

20, A Fire broke out at Gravesend, which consumed seven Houses; one was blown up. The Damage is computed at between 4 and 5000 l.

A Man jump'd from the Draw-bridge into the Thames, for a Wager of half a Crown, but was drowned.

A Fire at Ramsay, in Lincolnshire, consum'd great part of the Town: it began in an Oven, and spread so fast, that two Engines brought to extinguish the Flames, were burnt therein.

26. A Servant at a Livery Stable in Finsbury, fell from a Hayloft, and died immediately.

A Wherry overset in Wandsworth Reach, by a Westcountry Barge, a Pasenger and the Waterman drowned.

24 A Coachman watering his Horses in the Thames near Richmond, venturing too far, was drowned.

A young Man, sitting carelesly on the side of a Lighter, fell in and was drowned.

May 1.Observations on the Case of the Northern Colonies, pr. 6d.

An Explanation of the Nature of Equation of Time, and the use of the Equation Table, &c. price 1 s.

Reasons against the Bill for viewing, searching and examining of all Drugs, Medicines, &c.

A Rod for the Hyp-Doctor, made out of his own Broom, &c. By Tim Scrubb, &c. of Rag Fair, Esq;

Histoire d'Angleterre par M. de Rapin Thoyras, N. 40. Vol. VII.

The Rights of Churches and Colleges defended; in answer to an Enquiry into the customary Estates, &c. By Everard Fleetwood, Esq, pr. 1 s.

Verses to the Rev. Father in God Edward L. Bishop of Durham; with an Essay towards the restoring the original Texts of Scripture, and reconciling the Hebrew and Septuagint Ly the original Languages, Fathers, &c. pr. 6 d.

A new English Grammar, &c. by Daniel Duncam, M. D.

Narzanes; or the injured Statesman, &c. pr. 1 s.

4. A Vindication of the Truth and Authority of Holy Scripture, made English from the Latin of Socinus, &c. by Mr. Combe, pr. 2 s. 6 d. in Sheets.

A Sermon occasion'd by the Death of the late Rev. John Kinch, L.L. D. preach'd Apr. 11. By Jer. Hunt, D. D. pr. 6 d.

4 An humble Attempt toward the revival of practical Religion among Christians, &c. by I. Watts, D. D.

5. Modern History, &c. by Mr. Salmon, No. 80. Vol. XIV. 1.

Bob, Or, the Worldling's Downfal, &c. Pr. 6 d.

Peace. A Poem, pr. 6 d.

A full and true Account of the sad and deplorable Death of Caleb D'anvers, Esq;, &c. pr. 6 d.

6. An Essay concerning the Nature of Aliments, and the choice of them, according to the different Constitution, &c. by John Arbuthnot, M. D.

Miscellaneous Observations on Authors, Ancient and Modern, No. V. pr. 6 d.

The Judgment of Paris; a Pastoral Ballad Opera, pr. 6 d.

The Justices Case Law, &c. pr. 4 s.

The great Tendency of the positive Precepts of the Gospel to promote the observance of Natural Religion. A Sermon at Farringdon, Berks, Dec. 25. by Ric. Peers, M. A.

7. The Gentleman’s Magazine, No. IV. for April, pr. 6 d.

A Literary Journal, for Jan. Feb. and March, pr. 2 s.

The Travels of an adventurous Knight thro' the Kingdom of Wonders, pr. 6 d.

A Philosophical Enquiry concerning the Connection betwixt the Doctrines and Miracles of Jesus Christ, pr. 1 s.

8. The fitness of the Witnesses of the Resurrection of Christ, &c. by Wiliam Webster, M. A. pr. 6 d.

Memoirs of the Life and Conduct of William Pulteney, Esq;, &c. pr. 1 s.

Robert Welsted Tentamen de variis hominum naturis, remediisque ad singulas accommodatis, &c.

The Lords Protest on the second rejecting of the Pension Bill, &c. pr. 1 s.

Mother Needham's Lamentation, pr. 6 d.

The Monthly Chronicle for April, pr. 6 d.

11. The Political State of Great Britain for April.

A Projection of the Longitude at Sea, &c. by Ben. Parker, pr. 6 d.

The Bp of London's third Pastoral Letter to the People of his Diocese, pr 1 s.

13. Human Wisdom display'd: Or, a Guide to Prudence and Virtue, pr. 1 s.

The present State of the Cape of Good Hope, Vol. II. written in High-German, by Peter Kolben, A. M. Done into English by Mr. Medley.

14 A Letter from a Member of the House of Commons to a true born Englishman of the House of Lords, anatomizing, dissecting, and delineating some measures; with proper Remarks on the much applauded Treaty of Vienna, pr 1s.

Remarks upon a scandalous Book, lately published, called The History of the Royal House of Stuarts, &c. pr. 1s.

The Proceedings of the Sessions in the Old Bailey, No. IV. for 1731, pr. 6d.

La belle Assemblee, adorn'd with Cuts, Vol. III.

Quinque Libri Moysis prophetæ in lingua Ægyptia ex MSS. Vaticano, Parisiensi, & Bodleiano descripsit ac Latine vertit David Wilkins, S. T. P.

Histoire d'Angleterre, par M. de Rapin Thoyras, No. 41. Vol. VIII. 1.

A new Survey of the Globe, curiously engraven on 35 large Copper Plates, &c., by Mr. Tomas Templeman.

A Persuasive to Imartiality and Candor, in judging of the present Administration, address'd to the People. &c pr. 6d.

A Poem on the glorious Peace of Utrecht, &c. by B. Higgons, Esq; pr. 6d.

A new German Grammar, &c. by Benedictus Beiler.

An impartial Review of the Forces lately levy'd for and aginst Cleomenes, King of Sparta, &c. pr. 6d.

17. Good Advice in a Letter to a Friend, concerning the modern way of Free-thinking, &c. pr. 1s. 6d

18. The Phaeton Entertainment: Or, The Jehu Mimick, &c. pr 6d

New Experiments and Observations upon Mineral Waters, &c by Dr. Fred. Hoff; extracted from his Essays, with Notes, by Pet. Shaw, M. D.

Some Observations on the present State of the Dissenting Interest, &c. pr. 6d.

A Treatise of Gunnery. by John Gray.

Remarks on the Defence of a Plea for human Reason, pr. 1s.

20 The Triumphs of Bacchus, &c. pr. 6d.

Insolence rebuk'd: Or, an Answer to a Letter on the Subject of Infallibility, &c. by John Rigby, M A.

An experimental History of Road Water in Wiltshire, &c. by Stephen Williams, M. D. pr. 1s.

The Kingston Atalantis: Or, Woodward's Miscellany, &c. pr. 1s.

21. The present State of Europe, &c. for April.

Lecture V. on the English Tongue, by John Henly, M. A. pr. 6d

22, The Doctrine of the most Holy and ever Blessed Trinity briefly stated and proved, &c. as delivered at the Lady Moyers Lecture in 1729, and 1730, by Joseph Trapp, D. D.

Remarks on a scurrilous Libel intited, A Persuasive to Impartiality and Candour in judging of the present Administration, &c. pr. 1s.

24 Observations on the Animadversions on a Rev. Prelate's Remarks upon the Bill to prevent suits for Tythes, &c. pr. 1s

Collection of loyal Songs between the years 1639, and 1661, in 2 Volumes.

25 Remarks on Christianity as old as the Creation, &c. by John Jackson, Rector of Rossington, &c. pr. 1s.

Remarks on an Historical Play, call'd, The Fall of Mortimer, &c. pr. 6d.

Modern History; Or, the Present State of all Nations, by Mr. Salmon. No. 81. Vol. XIV. 2.

Histoire d'Angleterre par M. de Rapin Thoyras, No. 42. Vol. VII. 2.

26. The Mitre. A Tale in Hudibrastick Verse, pr. 6d.

The Pidctre of Love: A Poem in English and Latin, 4to

27 State Trials and Proceedings upon High Treason, &c. in 3 vol. 8vo to compleat the 6 vol. formerly publish'd.

Poems on several occasions: by Mr. Gay, in 2 vol. 12mo.

28. A short view of some of the most notorious Inconsistencies, Absurdities, &c. in a late Book, falsly entitled, The Usefulness, Truth, &c. of the Christian Revelation defended, pr. 6d.

An Enquiry into the Grounds and Reasons of the peoples apprehensions of a rupture with France, and a war with Spain, &c.

29. A brief vindication of those who have conform'd, from the uncharitable censures of a Pamphlet, entitled, Some Observations upon the present state of the Dissenting interest, &c. pr. 6d. Vera Fides: a Poetical Essay in 3 Cantos, by Geo. Adams, M. A.

A Letter to his Grace the Archbishop of Canterbury, concerning Mr. Henley's Oratory, pr. 3d.

South Britain. A Poem, pr. 6d.

The Fall of Mortimer, an historical Play.

31. Alkibia; P. II. a Disquisition upon worshiping towards the East, &c.

Observations in GARDENING for MAY, 1731.

You may now sow Rouncival Pease about four or five inches apart allowing two foot distance between the lines, and these will afford a good crop in September.

Replant Cabbage Lettuce which are large enough for that purpose.

Sow Kidney Beans; you may also sow Radishes and Endive with some Lettuces for Cabbaging. It is now a proper time to clip edgings of Box, &c. especially after rain. If the weather be dry gather herbs for drying to lay up for winter use; those are commonly Sage of Vertue, Mint, Carduus, Sweet-Marjoram, Thyme, Lavender, Rosemary, and the flowers of Marygolds.

About the 20th transplant Leeks in light rich ground at six inches distance from each other; but after the first week in this month you are to cut no asparagus by reason it will impoverish the roots. Continue to mow grass-walks early in the morning after rain.

Destroy weeds as in the former months. The season is now very proper for budding or inoculating of Peaches and other stone fruits.

An Alphabetical List of Fairs from June 12, to July 12, continu'd from our last, the moveable Fairs being in this Character, and reduced to the Days of the Month.

JUNE.

23Armington, Devsh

24 Arminster, ib.

Alresford, Hampsh.

Awkinborough Linc.

29 Abbotsbury, Dorsh.

Ayleford, ib.

Ashwel

15 Abergavenny, Monmsh.

16 Aberforth, Yorkshire

14 Bangor Cornw.

16 Builth Breckn.

19 Bridgnorth, Shropsh.

24 Bedford

Bosworth, Leicsh.

Beverley, Yorksh.

Bromsgrove, Worcsh

Bedal, Yorksh.

Burford, Oxfordsh.

Bishops-castle, Shrop.

Barnwell, Cambr.

Bridgwater, Somer.

Barnet, Hertf.

Boughtongreen, Nort.

Billington, Kent

Bardfield, Essex

Brecknock

25 Bungey, Suffolk

26 Buckingham

27 Burton upon Trent

29 Barkhamstead, Hert.

Bath, Somersetshire

Blandford, Dorsetsh

Bolton, Lancashire

Benington, Hertfosh

Buntingford, ib.

Bookfordslee, Devsh.

Bibalance

Bromley

Beverley, Yorkshire

17 Banbury, Oxfordshire

Bishopsfortford, Hertsh

Birmingham, Warwsh

Barwel, Berksh

14 Bradford, Wiltsh

Burton Lancash

Berrington, Somersh

19 Cewyard, Gloucesh

23 Castle-ebichen

24 Chester

Cranbrook, Kent

Cowbridge, Gloucsh

Colchester, Essex

Croyden, Surry

29 Cardiff, Glamorgsh

Charmouth, Dorsetsh

Camborn, Cornw

17 Christchurch, Hampsh.

Coventry, Warwicksh

Caerwigs

14 Creswell

Cribby

Capple-heath, Glam.

Caerfilly, ib.

23 30 Chipping norton, Oxf

22 Dereham, Norfolk

Downham, ib.

24 Dorchester

Devizes, Wiltshire

29 Dilverton, Somersh

17 Devizes, Wiltshire

14 Dorchester, Dorsetshire

24 Ealing, Hampshire

Farnham, Surry

19 Fairford, Gloucestsh

27 Folkestone, Kent

29 Fareham, Hampsh

24 Gloucester

29 Gorgan, Lancashire

14 Gillingham, Dorsetshire

17 Hadstock

Higham-ferris, Nort

20 Hithe, Kent

Hereford

24 Halifax, Yorkshire

Hertford

Hartstone, Norfolk

Horsham, Suff.

Hurst

29 Hogsdon. Hertf

Horndon, Essex

Holdworth

Hooksnorton, Oxf

Hudderfield, Sussex

Huntsfield, Somerset

Holdzary, Devonsh

Hartlerow, Berksh

19 Henly on Thames, Oxf.

Hempstead, Hertfordsh.

Hallaton, Leicestsh

14 Hounslow, Middlesex

Harsley-green, Lancsh

Hadlow, Kent.

Hampton-road, Gloucsh

19 Iver, Bucks

14 Ingham, Norfolk

24 Kyneron, Warwicksh

Knotsferd, Chesh

Kirkham, Lancash

14 Kendal, Westmorland

Kerby Stephen

17 Kellington, Cornwall

17 Langvilling, Montg

24 Lanceston, Cornwall

Lincoln

Ludlow, Shropshire

Lancaster

Leicester

22 Leek

27 Landrogarn, Anglsy

29 Landibendor

Lamorgan

Lemster, Herefordsh

Lestwithiel, Cornw.

Lerick, ib.

Lower-knotsford, Che

Lamport, Somersetsh

17 Lanwist

27 Machynleth, Montg.

29 Marlborough

Montsorel, Leicestsh

Mansfield, Nottingsh

15 St Mary Ottery, Devsh

17 Molson, Hampshire

13 Newtown, Montg.

16 Newport-keams

24 Newbury, Berks

Newton-Bushel, Dev.

26 Northop

29 Northleach, Gloucsh

17 Newport, Montg.

24 Oxford, Suff.

29 Oulney, Bucks

15 Pershore, Worcestsh

24 Probus, Cornw.

Pontypole, Monmsh

Peterborough, Nortsh

Preston, Lancashire

Pemsey

Plympton, Devonsh.

Plint, Cornwall

29 Petersfield, Hampsh

Pont Stephen

17 Pensance, Cornw.

12 Pontefract, Yorksh

17 Prescot, Lancashire

17 Queen's-Cammel, Som

24 Reading, Berks.

Rumford, Essex

28 Royston, Hertf.

29 Rednage, Bucks

Ringwood, Hampsh

17 Ross, Herefordshire

14 Rowel, Northamptonsh

Rayleigh, Essex

Ruilly

Ray, Essex

Radnor

17 Stowgreen

Shrewebury, Shropsh

St. Albans, Hertforsh

24 Sodbury, Glocesterth

Shaftesbury, Dorsetsh

Straitstock,

Southpetherton, Som.

St. Anns

Silverton, Devonsh

28 St. Bala, Mer.

28 St. Pombs, Cornw

29 Sudbury, Suffolk

Stehbury, Essex

Stafford

Stoken Church, Oxf.

Stockbridge, Hampsh

Stow, Suffolk

Starstrange, ib.

Sevenoke, Kent

Southam, Warwsh

Stockworth, Lincsh

14 Spilsby, Lincolnshire

20 Stamford, Lincolnshire

14 Southampton Hants

21 Soham, Cambridgire

14 Shipton upon Craven, Yorkshire

17 Stockport, Cheshire

14 Southaven, Yorkshire

14, 17 Sanbury

Stokesley, Yorkshire

17 Taunton, Somersetsh

24 Tangley, Hampshire

Tunbridge, Kent

Torrington, Devonsh

29 Tring, Hertforshdire

Thorock-graies, Essex

22 Tiverton, Devonshire

17 Tunbridge, Kent

29 Upton on Severn

Uscom, Devonshire

14 Usk, Monmouthshire

24 Wells, Somersetshire

Warwick

Windsor, Berks

Wallingford, ib.

Woodhurst, Huntinsh

Wenlock, Shropshire

Wakefield, Yorkshire

Wareham, Dorsetshire

Warminster, Wiltsh

24 Wolverhampton, Staff

29 Witheridge, Devonsh

Winterborn, Glocesh

Witney, Oxfordthire

Wem, Shropshire

14 Witham, Essex

17 Webley, Heref.

14 Watford, Hertf

Wandsworth, Surry

JULY.

2 Ashton-underline, Lan

7 Albrighton, Shropshir.

Amsworth, Hampsh

5 Burton upon Trent

7 Brentwood, Essex

12 Basselton, Hampshire

1 Congleton, Cheshire

Cashalton, Surry

4 Chesterfield, Derbyshire

7 Castle-town, Hereforsh

Chippingnorton, Oxf

Carinton

Chappel in Frith, Der

Cirencester, Gloucesh

Castelmain

Canterbury, Kent

Camelford, Cornwall

7 Denbigh

7 Emlin

10 Foulness

11 Frondinghay

2 Huntington

6 Haverel, Essex

9 Haverfordwest, Pemb.

9 Helstone, Cornwall

8 Haverhill

2 Ickleton, Cambridgsh

9 Ingatstone, Essex

6 Lanibither

Lanydlos, Montgosh

7 Laycock, Wiltshire

11 Lid, Kent

2 Neath, Glamorganshire

7 Newport, Shropshire

7 Overton, Hampshire

Odiham, ib.

Okehampton, Devil

1 Portsmouth

7 Penryn, Cornwall

2 Ricmansworth, Hertsh

7 Richmond, Yorkshire

Royston, Herts.

7 Uppingham, Rutland

2 Wem, Shropshire

Wickwere, Gloucestsh

Woburn, Bedfordfhire

5 Woodland, Dorsetshire

7 Wantage, Berks

Ward, Somersetshire

Weald

Whatley, Somersetsh

N. B. If any Fair is mistaken, the Author will, upon Information given, rectify it in the Progress of this Work.

