The Gentleman's Magazine, Volume 1 — January, 1731

Exported from Wikisource on May 11, 2026

* * *

THE

Gentleman's Magazine:

JANUARY, 1731.

* * *

Containing more in Quantity, and greater Variety, than any Book of the Kind and Price.

* * *

Contents (not listed in original)

A view of the Weekly Essays and Controversies.

Poetry, viz.The Ode for the new Year, by Colly Cibber, Esq; Remarks upon it; Imitiations of it, by way of Burlesque; Verses on the same Subject; ingenious Epitaphs and Epigrams.

The Monthly Intelligencer for January, 1731.

Melancholy Effects of Credulity in Witchcraft.

Domestick Occurrences, viz. Births, Deaths, Marriages, Preferments, Casualties, Burials and Christenings in London.

A correct List of the Sheriffs for the current Year.

Remarkable Advertisements.

Prices of Goods and Stocks.

Foreign Affairs, with an Introduction to this Year’s History.

Fairs

Observations in Gardening

Books and Pamphlets publish’d.

* * *

ADVERTISEMENT.

IT has been unexceptionably advanced, that a good Abridgment of the Law is more intelligible than the Statutes at large; so a nice Model is as entertaining as the Original, and a true Specimen as satisfactory as the whole Parcel: This may serve to illustrate the Reasonableness of our present Undertaking, which in the first place is to give Monthly a View of all the Pieces of Wit, Humour, or Intelligence, daily offer'd to the Publick in the News-Papers, (which of late are so multiply'd, as to render it impossible, unless a man makes it a business, to consult them all) and in the next place we shall join therewith some other matters of Use or Amusement that will be communicated to us.

Upon calculating the Number of News-Papers, 'tis found that (besides divers written Accounts) no less than 200 Half-sheets per Month are thrown from the Press only in London, and about as many printed elsewhere in the Three Kingdoms; a considerable Part of which constantly exhibit Essays on various Subjects for Entertainment, and all the rest, occasionally oblige their Readers with matters of Public Concern, communicated to the World by Persons of Capacity thro' their Means: so that they are become the chief Channels of Amusement and Intelligence. But then being only loose Papers, uncertainly scatter'd about, it often happens, that many things deserving Attention, contained in them, are only seen by Accident, and others not sufficiently publish'd or preserved for universal Benefit and Information.

This Consideration has induced several Gentlemen to promote a Monthly Collection, to treasure up, as in a Magazine, the most remarkable Pieces on the Subjects abovemention'd, or at least impartial Abridgments thereof, as a Method much better calculated to preserve those Things that are curious, than that of transcribing.

In pursuance whereof, and the great Encouragement already given, this W o r k will be regularly continued, shall appear earlier, and contain more than any other Monthly Book of the same Price.

As all possible Care will be taken to avoid the Mistakes incident to undertakings of this kind, so the Author will think himself oblig'd to such Persons who shall give him a true state of any Transaction erroneously publish'd in the Papers, or shall please to communicate any Pieces of Wit or Entertainment proper to be inserted; directing for him at the Printer's at St. John's Gate, near Hicks's-Hall, where any Persons sending proper Orders, may have the Numbers sent them, at their first coming out, without further Trouble, whether in Town or Country.

A View of the Weekly ESSAYS in this Month.

The Craftsman by Caleb D'anvers Esq; and Mr Oldcastle. Jan 2. No. 235.

MR. Oldcastle having begun his remarks on the conduct of the Kings of England, to shew how the spirit of Faction, and the spirit of Liberty had exerted themselves at different times and occasions, had brought his Observations down to the reign of Q. Elizabeth. He begins No. 234, with an Eulogium upon her prudent conduct in the most arduous difficulties that attended her accession to the Throne. These difficulties he explains at large, and goes on No. 235, to speak more largely of the means whereby she establish'd her glory and confirm'd herself in the affections of her People. Her first principle was to be neither fear'd nor despis'd by those she govern'd. He mentions some instances wherein she discover'd her wisdom in both these respects, particularly in maintaining her Prerogative, which altho' she was fond of, yet took care it never should be grievous, or if it should happen so to particular persons, that it should appear specious to the publick. The effects, he says, of a bare-fac'd Prerogative are not so dangerous to Liberty as the attempts which are made to surprize and undermine it. Wherefore Q. Eliz. never kept up a standing Army, but placed her security in the affection of her People. With respect to parties he extols her moderation and equity, by which conduct she stood on firmer ground, and had less to fear from the spirit of Faction. She neither hastily espoused the party which she favour'd, nor inflam'd the spirits of the adverse party. The Papists and Puritans she used with lenity, 'till their evil practices made it necessary to execute rigours, and even then she distinguished Papists in conscience from Papists in Faction, nor condemn'd the Zeal of the Puritans, but sometimes censured their Violence. He says from Cambden, she bestowed her favours with so much caution, and so little distinction, as to prevent either party from gaining the ascendant over her, whereby she remained Mistress of her own self, and preserved both their affections and her own power and authority entire.

He proceeds to justify Q. Eliz. from the imputation of avarice, by observing that she neither hoarded up, nor was lavish of the publick money. Quotes a saying of the famous Burleigh, that, He never cared to see the treasury swell like a disorder'd spleen, when the other parts of the common-wealth were in a Consumption; and his mistress thought that money in the pockets of her subjects was better than in her own.

It was her maxim to save for the publick not for herself, and to measure her riches by the riches of the nation; refused supplies offered, and remitted payment of supplies granted, when the publick service did not require it. The two great principles of her Œconomy were 1st. Not suffering her Officers to enrich themselves by fraud or clandestine management. 2d. Never attempting to do any thing with money that could be done with wisdom or courage.(See p.319.) For which cites several instances; and observes how greatly she promoted commerce, and increased the fleet of England, which before was inconsiderable.

Jan. 9. Craftsman, No. 236.

ALL his oratory here is pointed at the person of a certain great man whom he represents as affecting all the qualities and requisites of the most consummate statesman, without any qualifications in him necessary for so high a post. He ridicules him for a ready habit of lying, because it is sometimes proper for a politician to conceal the truth: Charges him with a dark mysterious proceeding on all Occasions, because secrecy is requir'd in a statesman, and adds, that 'tis a proof that his secret services are great by the large sums requir'd for carrying them on. Says, good Intelligence is another excellent property in an able statesman, and therefore our mock minister apes him in this particular; gives a long detail of instances to illustrate what he advances.

Confesses, indeed, that the fluctuation of affairs hath oblig'd the ministry to go from court to court; to make treaties, which (as observ'd by the author of the London Journal) it is by no means proper to execute ——— and adds, They found us engag'd in a treaty with the Emperor; but they have very wisely vary'd from it ——— They made a Treaty with France; and have hitherto very wisely observ'd it ——— they sent a large Squadron of ships, with an hostile appearance, and without any declaration of war, into the West-Indies; but they wisely gave the Admiral instructions not to make use of any other force than perswasion ——— They sent another squadron into the Baltick; and a third into the Mediterranean; but they very wisely gave the Commanders of them the same pacifick Instructions; even tho' Spain was actually at war with us, and attacking one of our most valuable possessions ——— They afterwards enter'd into a treaty with Spain; but they have hitherto very wisely declin'd to put it in execution; and if they are now negotiating another treaty at Vienna, as we have been told, I doubt not that the same wisdom will appear in it, whether it is design'd to be put in execution or not.

He concludes by reducing his harangue into a kind of problematical order, and makes a great many bold interrogatories, the answering of which, he imagines, would lay his opponents under the dilemma, of disapproving their own conduct, or allowing the justness of his arguments; such as these; Will our M———r execute the treaty of Seville, or will he not? would a Reconciliation at Vienna, tho' justifiable in other persons, be so in him? hath not the Emperor shewn that he does not fear us? will he not affect to show that he doth not want us? and many other queries to the like purpose. See London Journal of the 16th. p. 6, 7. and Free Briton of the 14th, p. 16, 17.

Craftsman, Jan. 16, No. 237.

Complains of the hardship that the authors of the Craftsman lye under; that a certain gentleman makes use of his authority to restrain their pens, while he employs others to throw about scandal at random; and others are suffer'd to call the authors of the Craftsman, traytors and villains!

Makes some reflections on the London Journal Jan. 9. which had took to pieces his Hague Letter, concerning the report of a negotiation at Vienna.

Mr Osborne in the London Journal having exposed a paradox from the Craftsman, that the ministry are never right; when they do what the Craftsmen count wroung; and yet wrong, when they do what the Craftsmen count right; the Craftsman observes, that 'tis allow'd that an accommodation with the Emperor is a right measure, but attended with fatal consequences, and almost insuperable difficulties; because such measures might be resented by other courts as an infraction of treaties, which Mr. Osborne says, were only occasional and temporal.

The Craftsman supposes these alliances to be such, but then asks, Will our allies understand 'em in the same sense? If not, what may be the consequences?

As to what the Craftsman had granted, that the fulness of time was come to desert one ally, and to Mr. Osborne's reasons for such desertion, he replies by demanding, Whether it was not equally reasonable long ago?

Osborne had ask'd ——— if upon the non-execution of this treaty, occasion'd by the different views of the allies, another court should grow stubborn, what must we do? This the Craftsman answers by another question, that is, whether the different views of the allies do not proceed from their different interefts?

Craftsman, Jan. 23, No. 238.

From the Minutes of Mr. Oldcastle.

THis paper continues remarks on Q. Elizabeth's reign; and is a long Encomium on her management of treaties with foreign powers, which she always conducted in such a manner as was best suited to the good of her people and the honour and dignity of the nation. Her Ministry went wisely and steadily on to their own great purposes of preserving the peace of Europe, and the trade and prosperity of the Kingdom. (See Free Brit. p. 8, 326.)

Craftsman, Jan. 30, No. 239.

MAintains the liberty of the Press, in opposition to those who argue for the necessity of some restraint, which, if granted, he says, might be made use of to destroy all news papers whatsoever, except the Gazette.

After repeating most of the points in debate, he defends his Hague letter (for which the government thought fit to call him to an account) in as much as there was nothing in it asserted, but only supposed; and adds, he has as much right to reason upon suppositions as Mr. Osborne; and to censure the conduct of ministers, as he hath to approve it; for unless the right is reciprocal, the liberty of the press is no liberty at all.

As to what Mr. Walsingham had allow'd, that we have a right to reason upon political affairs, tho' not to lay down false facts; he replies, that he has asserted no falshoods, and only exercised the natural right of every Free Briton, to offer his opinion on affairs.

Concludes with saying, that if he should be call'd upon to defend himself in a court of justice he must submit to the law, and abide the judgment of his country. See p. 298.

* * *

London. Jan. 2. No. 596.

against the Craftsman, No. 233.

THE Craftsman having in his said Journal advanced several arguments for the disbanding the Army and repealing the Riot Act, the Author of the London Journal undertakes here to confute them. He admits that a Government ought to have no more power than is necessary for the safety and protection, the preservation and happiness of the people, but adds that the laws alone, without a power to execute, and provide against all sudden emergencies, and possible dangers, will not answer these ends. Asserts that the possibility of powers being abused is not a sufficient reason to strip the Government of such a security, or to lodge the safety of the King in the affections of the people, which are variable and easily seduced, and (as the Craftsman allows) very precarious, when he makes a doubt whether his present Majesty enjoys them. Not only Armies and Riot Acts, but even the very law itself, by ill designing men may be used for our destruction, which were made for our safety. But must we part with the law, because we may suffer by the law? Every nation round us is arm'd, and must we alone stand naked and defenceless? If the liberties of many nations have been destroy'd by standing armies, the liberties of many have been preserv'd by them. Mentions the Revolution as an instance, and believes the Pr. of Orange would not have so easily succeeded, had the army been as true to the King as they were to their country. That the disbanding the army after the peace of Riswick embolden'd the French King to set his Grandson on the Throne of Spain, and declare the Pretender, which involv'd us in a ten years war: That nothing more intimidated the Ministry in the last four years of Q. Anne's reign, than the honesty and bravery of the gentlemen of the army.

As to the riot act, he says that power is necessary to prevent riots and tumults, and to disperse the people when so assembled. To this purpose a law is made which tells them the consequences of it; a proper officer gives them warning; and if after this they will stay and be hang'd, 'tis their own fault.

He allows, that shou'd a Justice of the peace assume the liberty of reading the proclamation where a member of parliament is chusing, he ought to be hang'd. He don't see how this act can injure us any other way for while the constitution is preserv'd, and our liberties taken care of by the government, the people can't be unjustly hurt by it.

The remaining part of his discourse is spent in setting forth the unreasonableness of repealing this act, from the behaviour of the authors of the Craftsman and their abettors, who by their conduct in exciting uneasiness in the people, have made it necessary to continue it in force.

London Journal, Jan. 9, No. 597.

Contains remarks upon a paper in the Craftsman, called, An extra of a letter from the Hague.

The author begins with observing, that tho' the pretence of the Craftsman is liberty and patiotism, yet his real design is opposition to the court.

He then reflects on the Craftsman's incoherent way of arguing, just as it serves to vent his spleen; for according to him the ministry are never right when they do what he counts wrong, and always wrong when they do what the Craftsman counts right.

When we were broken with the Emperor we were quite wrong, and now we are going to unite with the Emperor we are equally wrong.

This paper, or letter, the Journalist says, is made up of mere conjectures, and suppofitions; or else insinuations, unsupported by facts or reason: justifies our ministry from the aspersion that we are undoing what we have been doing these five years; and insists that we have been continuing to do the same thing, that is, pursuing the peace and happiness of the nation by different means, as alterations happen'd, or circumstances varied.

He then answers the Craftsman's charge of deserting one ally, by supposing that this ally may have views inconsistent with the two other allies, and so stand disposed to act contrary to the design of that treaty and our interest. England is not obliged to execute the treaty, unless the other allies will act their part.

The Craftsman charges the ministry with obstinate perseverance in bad measures, and now with a precipitate alteration of councils. This the author of this Journal denies, and says, it should be more justly called, a wise and prudent accommodating themselves to the late unfortunate juncture of affairs. Changing hands is not an alteration of councils, but a conduct which wise and honest men ought to observe.

London Journal, Jan. 16. No. 598.

Reflections on the present State of Affairs, occasion'd by the Craftsman, Jan. 9.

HE takes notice of the Craftsman's method of drawing of characters, in which he offends all the laws of honesty, propriety and decorum; charges without evidence or reason, and without common sense; makes his Mock-minister a composition of insolence, malice, and a small talent for ridicule, yet is not half so odious as the Mock-patriot who drest him; who, while he counterfeits publick virtue, is infamously abusing the publick; clothes himself with the love of his country, while he is making a jest of it; and injures the community, while he pretends the highest regard for it; and who, because we have tried all possible ways to preserve the peace, calls our ministers Dupes of all the powers of Europe, political Mendicants, strolling about from court to court.

The Craftsman having advanc'd, that we are inexcuseable for not having foreseen and prevented these conjunctures in which nothing can be done which is not a fault to do; our author asks, what conjunctures those are, in which a man is not at liberty to act reasonably and honestly? or can it be a fault so to act?

By the treaty of Seville we only yielded to Spain a point, which, in real interest, concerned some of the contending powers. It could hardly be imagin'd that the Emperor would have put himself to the expence, or hazard of a war, for the small deviation of the Quadruple Alliance, had he not been informed, that the allies could not agree about the war; or that they disagreed about the scene of action; or, for the sake of peace, the allies might all concur to wait one Year to see what the Emperor would do. Any of these suppositions affords a reason why the treaty of Seville is not yet executed.

As to the queries put by the craftsman, (p. 4.) they are all ask'd for the sake of the two last, which demand, Will not this measure of making up with the Emperor be attended with worse consequences than turning out the minister? and ——— Will the objections against it, be so strong, if manag'd by another hand? ——— he answers no; for persons don't alter the relation of things, or change the nature of actions. If it is reasonable, 'tis equally so whoever does it.

London Journal, Jan. 23. No. 599.

BY the behaviour of the ministry for some years past, it evidently appears, that the preserving the peace of Europe, and securing the trade and prosperity of the kingdom, has been their greatest concern; but whether means taken to that end have been always right, is not so easily determin'd.

The sword indeed might have cut our way to peace, and added to our glory, but the event might have prov'd a general war. ——— Our ministry thought wisdom better than power. To this end, when our enemies arm'd we put ourselves in a posture of defence; we suffer'd little insults, as a proof that we were willing to be one with a nation with whom it is our interest to be one. To this end we united those who were disjoin'd, and separated those who were united; still avoiding a war.

But while the ministry have been industrious in preventing confusions, and watching opportunities of accommodating differences, their adversaries have practis'd all imaginary ways to insult and embarrass them.

Osborne clears himself from the imputation which the Craftsman had charg'd him with, viz. that the supposition that we are going to unite with the Emperor, will be attended with perfidy, infraction of treaties, and violation of faith.

London Journal, Jan. 30. No. 600.

THIS Journal contains observations on Mr. Oldcastle's minutes of Q. Elizabeth's reign, which he affirms is a collection of Scraps without order or method, coherence or connexion, being sounds without sense, confusedly thrown at the present administration. See p. 3.

Admits that this Queen was a wise and glorious Princess, but says that our Constitution, and the exercise of Power at home, is vastly better than what they were in her reign, and our Foreign Affairs transacted with as much wisdom.

Quotes Mr. Oldcastle's own words, in which he describes the Wisdom and Address of Q. Elizabeth, to describe the Wisdom and Address of the present Minister in negotiating Foreign Affairs. (See p. 3.)

Lastly, he gives several maxims out of Cambden and Francis Osborne's memoirs of this Queen, such as her preferring peace to war; her delaying resentment of injuries till proper seasons; her judgment of her subjects abilities, which she dextrously fitted for her favours and their employments; her steady resolution not to ransom herself from her enemies at the price of their preferments who lov'd her.

Fog's Journal, Saturday, January 9. No. 120

A Letter is inserted, containing remarks on Mr. Chubb's discourse concerning Reason, in which is asserted, that it either is, or ought to be a sufficient guide in matters of Religion.

This Proposition the remarker explains in the words of Mr. Chubb, and assents to, and then proceeds to consider it more particularly. Does not comprehend Mr. Chubb's observation, i.e. The Question is not whether there be absolutely such a capacity in man: for if man has such a capacity, as Mr. Chubb insists, he may be truly said to be the possessor of it. Nor can the remarker understand the sense of that clause, he ought to have, because it has no relation to the dispute between Mr. Chubb and the Bp of London, i.e. what man now has, and is capable of.

The remarker goes on to shew, that the author's argument to prove that man ought to have such a capacity, is needless, because it is universally assented to.

Mr. Chubb argues, That as our Species was no ways accessary to Adam's transgression, 'tis unreasonable and unequal that they should suffer by it.

To this is answer'd, that there are other difficulties in the general scheme of providence as hard to be solved; as that, whole families are involved in misery by the mismanagement of their ancestor; the entailment of chronick and terrible disorders on children by the debaucheries of a father, for that it is wrong intolerable, and against reason to punish children for the crimes of their fathers. But all these difficulties which seem to clash with the wisdom and goodness of God, are rectify'd in a future state, for which we are manifestly fitted and defign'd.

Fog's Journal, Jan. 16. No. 121.

THis paper begins with a piece of humourous irony; observing that as criticks never appear so disappointed as when they meet with beauties in an author; so the present sett of disaffected political writers conceive no small joy to see their country involv'd in difficulties; not can they be worse mortified than to see this nation flourish in trade, wealth and credit.

That Osborne (writer of the London Journal) and Wallingham (of the Free Briton) affirm, That the present crew of factious writers proceeds on this principle. Descants upon the measures for some years past; the destruction of the Spanish Fleet in the Mediterranean, whereby Sicily was gain'd for the Emperor, and the preservation of the balance of Europe so ill settled by that wicked treaty of Utrecht.

Mentions some of the great Actions which have stirr'd up the envy of the disaffected; as, the sending annual fleets into the Baltick; the treaty of Hanover; the maintaining a body of Hessian troops; sending squadrons to the coasts of Spain and the West-Indies, the expedition to Spithead, and lastly, the treaty of Seville. This last, he ironically says, had like to have kill'd the disaffected quite, because it was so wisely calculated for establishing a general tranquillity, and for the advancing the trade of Great Britain!

He goes on throwing his sarcasms at the writers on the side of the present ministry, who having challeng'd the disaffected to show any one step taken destructive of the true interest of their country, instances in the opening the harbour of Dunkirk, the Island of St. Lucia planted by the French; raising recruits in Ireland for the service of France; all which the two writers aforemention'd, convinced the world were groundless, by telling the authors of these reports, they lyed.

He makes some reflections on Mr. Osborne's observations of the ill conduct of the ministry in the latter end of Q. Anne's reign; as the endeavours to break the power of the Dissenters, and to weaken the security of the Hanover succession; setting aside the Quaker's affirmation; the disbanding the army. All which Fog laughs at! and concludes with his surprize, that when he considers with how much good sense these two writers have exposed the actions of that Tory ministry, and how they have defended the measures of the present, there should be a disaffected person left in the kingdom.

Fog's Journal, Jan. 13. No. 123.

THIS Paper consists of reflections on a pamphlet, intituled, A Defence of the Measures of the present Administration.

He begins with the observation which the author had made: "That complaints and outcries are no foundation for supposing defects in publick counsels; for in a frame of government like ours, a continuance of the same administration will always lessen the popularity of the ministry.

"The frequent use of this observation, Fog says, is enough to shew its good sense. 'Twas first started by the Rev. Author of the Enquiry, all the anniversary pamphlets have had it since, and it has been repeated by Mr. Osborne 75 times; by Mr. Walsingham twice as many; nor is there any thing in this pamphlet but what has the authority of, at least, 50 repetitions": yet he cannot subscribe to his opinion; for supposing it true, it is a sure sign that affairs are well conducted; but if the contempt of all men of sense be added to this clamour, oh! then we pronounce him an angel.

He goes on to quote another passage; "That the Peace of Utrecht left us on good terms with Spain, which might have turn'd to our advantage, had our affairs been wisely manag'd in the late reign; but as they were not, it laid the foundation of the several perplexities that have since attended us."

This conduct of the last reign, Fog says, ought to be apply'd to a person or two since dead, and not to the present ministers. Adds, that he might have spar'd his encomium of the Utrecht treaty, or shewn us the folly of cultivating a good understanding with the Emperor and Spain at the same time, by which our affairs, every where were left in a stupid calm; for had they contriv'd to make either of 'em our enemy, we should always have had a quarrel and a treaty depending, and so have given vent to our humours and money too.

The author having said, that when the present ministry came into power, they observ'd from the complexion of things mischief must be gath'ring somewhere, which prov'd to be an alliance betwixt Spain and the Emperor. This, Fog affirms, was very sagacious; but that the treaty he speaks of was, and still is deny'd by both the parties.

He then criticises on several other parts of the discourse, especially on those which extol the conduct of our ministry and their management of our affairs, relating to the inaction of the Squadron squadron sent to the West Indies, and keeping back the Spanish Treasure, thereby rendring it useless, as to any dangerous purposes.

The wisdom of this conduct, Fog takes notice, proved itself in the Event; The Spaniards were provoked; sent out their privateers, and pillag'd our merchants!

As to humouring the Q. of Spain in settling the Italian dukedoms on Don Carlos, says, sneeringly, besides obliging a fair Lady, Great Britain has gain'd the treaty of Seville!

Fog's Journal, Jan. 30. No. 124.

THe Press, says he, has lately warm'd with writing pro and con, upon the present posture of affairs, by which we find that one party is of opinion, that ministers of state are no more than men; t'other will have 'em to be angels (that is while they continue in power.) ——— Here you read, that Affairs are in no better situation than they should be ——— there, that we have neither past miscarriages, or present grievances to complain of, and that the nation never was in so flourishing a condition. One D'Anvers, and, if I mistake not, one Fog, are accused of seditiously asserting that a Crow is black, but the writers on the other side, have, with infinite Wit, proved a black Crow to be the whitest bird of all the feather'd kind.

He proceeds thus merrily to remark on a pamphlet intitled, Considerations on the present state of affairs, with regard to the Number of Forces in the Pay of Great Britain; and endeavours, in his ironical way, to overthrow the several arguments advanced by the author for maintaining the Hessian troops, and concludes with giving his opinion that they will be very far from convincing the disaffected.

* * *

The Grub-street Journal, Thursday, Jan. 14. No. 53.

DR. Quibus chuses for the subject of his discourse the operation designed to be performed on the ears of one Rey, a condemn'd malefactor, by Mr Cheselden. This he treats in a ludicrous manner, and supposes that if Mr Rey should prove so unphilosophical as to give the surgeon the slip as soon as the operation is over, we should be as much in the dark as we were before. He declares his opinion, that not only the drum, but the whole organ, or the ear it self, is of no use at all in hearing, and would know the truth of his conjecture by seeing the ears of some malefactor entirely extirpated. Recommends it as a thing of great use, if instead of executing malefactors they were made to undergo such kind of experiments. Trial may be made whether the Retina of the eye is of any use in seeing. A needle might be introduced into the eye, and the Retina quite remov'd. The spleen might be taken out of some vile malefactor, and an observation made whether their inclinations to evil courses depend not on a superfluity of the Atra Bilis. Another experiment he recommends as of great consequence, that is, whether the tying up one of the testicles would not determine the sex of a child begotten at such a time. By this means, he says, many illustrious families might be inform'd of a just and certain method of obtaining an heir to their estates. See p. 19.

The Grub-street Journal, Thursday, Jan. 14. No. 54.

THe author begins with the Laureat's new-year's ode (for which see p. 20) and subjoins to it some explanatory notes; the substance of which is contain'd in the following short remarks.

Line 1. The eternity of the world is here maintain'd, tho' Dr. Clarke had objected against it.

3. Old Janus, a heathenish emblem, is supplanted by old Time, as more familiar to christian readers.

5. To this is objected, making spring a living person calling for birth as it were to old Time; whereas old Time had bid spring past, so no occasion for spring to call. Which is defended thus; When time bids spring pass, it might not be ready, but as soon as it was, it calls for birth.

Line 7. Harvest in summer is very early, and something unusual.

9. But not soon enough, it seems, because here each season is said to bring THEIR stores TO winter's wants, till warmer genial suns recall the spring———However Mr. Cibber's authority makes it current.

15. An admirable improvement of Nocte pluit tota, &c. which to set in a true light is translated and imitated:

It rains all night, the shows returns with day:

Thus Jove and Cæsar bear divided sway.

Plenty is Heav'n's, and Peace our Monarch's care,

Thus Jove and George divided Empire share.

But to this was objected, that we are not only indebted to heaven for plenty, but for peace too, tho' like marriages said to be made there, it was not yet come down.

21. It is queried what war and peace the poet means here.

22. An emendation of this line is offer'd to make it clear,

We triumph most when MOST the farmer feeds.

and the Beef eaters at St. James's, are appeal'd to for the justness of it.

23, 24. The elegance of these lines are literally defended, but the propriety and cadence of them are called in question.

25, 26, 27, 21. These seem inconsistent with the 19th and 20th verses.

As in the 35th, and 46th lines, Phœbus had roll'd in vain, till Albion could behold such a sight as at present on the throne, well might the poet take the exclamation in the 37th and 38th.

39, 40. As it is impossible always to REACH our own desires, tho' required by heaven, it is proposed to alter it to TEACH; that is, instruct united hearts to address the throne by their own loyal desires.

41. Read selfish, as better than selfborn; all views whatever being such.

46. Suns probably should be read sons, because it seems to be a contradiction to ever circling sun, line 1.

The criticiser concludes with observing, that when a song is good sense, it must be made nonsense before it is made musick; so when a song is nonsense, there's no other way but by singing it to make it seem tolerable sense.

Grub-street Journal, Jan. 21. No. 55.

THe author begins with observing that nothing has increased their society so much as poetry: We are taught it at school; if not, believe we are born poets. Every corner abounds with its professors; the bellman nightly salutes his master and mistress: the marshal, his gentlemen soldiers every christmas: every street rings with ballads; the royal palace resounds with odes; and every church-yard with its productions: Stephen Duck's good fortune has occasion'd a poor Weaver in Spittle-fields to publish a miscellany of poems which he addresses to the Queen, and introduces with this line.

Thy fortune, Duck, affects my kindred mind;

Wherefore Grub st. presumes to represent to her Majesty, that the best way to encourage the Weaver, would be to wear british manufactures; and the thresher, by giving him a small farm in the country; and to restrain both from writing a line more in rhime or measure.

Apprehends, that from this general inclination to write, they shall be oblig'd, like the royal society, to discourage intruders amongst them, and, to prevent misunderstanding, proposes that, no person shall be a member of both societies at the same time.

Grub-street Journal, Jan. 21. No.56.

MAkes some remarks concerning the management of controversies between the political writers. This he illustrates by two examples; by which he would intimate the spirit that animates and governs both parties. The first is a quotation of two severe personal characters, from a pamphlet entitled Sedition and Defamation display'd, in a Letter to the Author of the Craftsman. The other is some paragraphs attacking two characters on the opposite side, drawn from the Pamphlet call'd, A proper reply to a late scurrilous libel intitled Sedition and Defamation display'd; in a Letter to the author, by Caleb D'anvers Esq; which four characters he supposes imaginary, for if they were real, no man of sense, honour, or honesty would espouse them.

* * *

Weekly Register, Jan. 9. No. 39.

THE Register publishes a mystical letter from a club of Gardners, wherein is figuratively describ'd the evils which the fraternity have occasionally suffer'd from the depredations of Locusts, Palmer-worms, Caterpillars, and other pestiferous vermin. Several discourses were made by the members concerning the Origin and Progress of these their common enemies. One of the company said, that the first appearance of them is in a fort of spawn, spread over the cabbage leaves, which gradually rises into Grubs. This Grubbean race, he reckons, are descendants of the Egyptian Locusts, and the Palmer-worms and Caterpillars, a spurious offpring of the Locusts. Another of the society believes they are of an English extraction; gives several significations of the word Grub, and then runs a parallel between the infects called Grubs, and the Grubean Society, or Grubstreet Journalists. To which he adds a remark, that 'tis something strange a body of Men should set themselves up to make a merit of other men's faults: they must of course be despicable themselves, because they take a pleasure in making others appear so.

Remembers that in the late wartime many postscripts to the Flying-Posts were bawl'd about with abundance of news, but scarce a word of truth: So that paper gain'd the name of the Lying Post, and was called Grubstreet News. And still it's a common appellation, when we hear full and true accounts cry'd by our doors, 'tis Grubstreet, all Grubstreet.

Weekly Register, Jan. 16. No. 40.

On Ridicule, address'd to the authors of the Grubstreet-Journal.

SAys, Ridicule is a general practice, and proceeds either from the wantonness of our own vanity, or contempt of others frailties. We take the same pleasure in scandal as monkies do in mischief. Wonders why the Tea-table should be thought the mother of scandal, or the nurse of ridicule, when all mankind is pursuing the same pleasure under different disguises. They condemn Censure in others, that they may indulge it themselves. The taverns are as accessary to it as private houses. Courts are esteemed the source of politeness and good manners; theatres of ingenuity, churches of sanctity; yet all are infected with the evil of scandal. Seems to prefer the gaming-table as freest from irony and slander; avarice being a spirit that allows of no rival. This vice is contagious, and runs thro' the whole people: it wanders every where, like an ignis fatuus, and is only at home in the Grubstreet Journal.

Don't pretend how far this libertinism of speech is allowable, but is certain that every moral man will use it only for the sake of him he censures; and every gentleman will make good manners the only rule of behaviour. All men are jealous of their characters, and we mast have a due complaisance for one frailty while we would reform another; for the insolence of knowledge is as insupportable as the affectation of folly. The subjects of ridicule are to be justly chosen and carefully distinguished.

Concludes with some Reflections on the authors of the Grubstreet-Journal, who have undertaken the drudgery of invective under pretence of being champions for politeness.

Weekly Register, Jan. 34. No 41.

HE remarks, that from an ambition of emulating, without a capacity to equal another's excellencies, have arisen an infinite number of pretenders to reputation. The regular physician is intruded upon by the empyrick; the masterly painter is slighted in favour of impudence and ignorance; the most elegant and chaste compositions of musick, are forc'd to give way to amusements less polite: Quackery interferes with trade, and undermines honesty. The pedlar stiles himself a merchant; No wonder then that authors of every character are so wretchedly personated. Exclaims against bad writers, from the Court-scribbler to the Grubstreet hackney.

Proceeds to the description of a good author; says, his principal end, in occasional writings, should be to entertain the publick innocently and genteely; to insinuate knowledge in the disguise of amusement, and trifle the world into virtue and good manners: he should consider every reader as a critick and a gentleman, and be fearful of offending either: points out what a writer should observe, who would recommend himself and entertain the world; i.e. an important subject, a clear and expressive method, a flowing and natural stile, imagination and judgment, truth and impartiality, modesty in his images, pity for the failings of human nature, and endeavours to amend 'em. He shou'd think himself a son of the publick and be an example of the generous spirit he would recommend; he should be able to trace the passions thro' all their disguises; have knowledge in his head, and good humour in his heart: he should be an enemy to vice, but a friend to all mankind.

Weekly Register, Jan. 30. No. 42.

THIS is a continuation of a former discourse upon criticism, wherein he points out several excellencies that distinguish a good critick from a bad.

He then considers the manner of criticism, that some are Fox-hunters in censure, and declare war against all writers in general. Some are like Fig and Sutton, the declar'd antagonists to one another. Some are Whigs and Tories, divided into parties, always applauding themselves, and condemning their opposers. Some are Grubstreet hawkers, who make a penny of throwing about censure at random without distinction or regard of persons.

The design of criticism is amendment; and concludes with acknowledging his own failings, and his readiness to be handsomely corrected.

* * *

The Universal Spectator, Saturday Jan. 2. No. 117.

Great wits to madness nearly are ally'd

And thin partitions do their bounds divide.

Dryden.

MR. Stonecastle, the nominal author, begins this day's entertainment with observing that men are not born for themselves; that we are not only bound to relieve the necessities of others, but in all our dealings, &c. with mankind to render ourselves grateful to all, offensive to none, much less take pleasure in doing disagreeable things. Says there is a sett of people who are frequently committing ill-bred, rude, and even shocking things, which they excuse by only saying, 'tis their humour. Instances in a certain knight, who never spoke himself, nor suffer'd any body in his presence to speak louder than to be barely heard; insomuch that his servants, as they were accustom'd to be mutes at home, behav'd like no body when they came abroad.

His nephew Silvio, just come from the university, declaims on every subject you can mention, and imagines himself master of every science. Whatever is the topick of discourse, he will suffer no body to talk upon it but himself; his uncle has but one hope of curing him of his folly, that is, by engaging him to talk of maritime affairs before captain Firebal of the Tempest, who, very probably, will beat him into better manners.

Beauty itself loses its attraction when accompanied with these humours.

Artemisa is exquisitely handsome, but takes the liberty of abusing every body at random, by asking ill-natur'd questions, and being witty upon others imperfections: excuses herself by saying, 'tis her way to tell unlucky truths and she can't help it.

Crito is a man of sense, learning, and accuracy of judgment; but this ought not to privilege him to treat every writer he does not like with opprobrious language.

Belliza has wit and beauty, accompanied with a solid judgment. Yet all this will hardly palliate the disgust she gives people with whom she eats. She never uses a fork, is begreased up to the knuckles, and by her immoderate taking of snuff, which frequently falling among her sauce, she gives her guests their bellies full before they have half din'd. Concludes with a merry story of a certain Colonel, whose flight it was, when he had drank a glass or two too much, to fire off and play tricks with his pistols. One night the col. having drank too freely order'd, his footman, who was an Irishman newly hired, to bring his pistols. Teague obey'd; the Col. loaded them both, and having lock'd the door commanded his man to hold one of the candles at arm's length, till he snuff'd it with a ball. Prayers and intreaties were in vain, and comply he must, and did, tho' trembling; the Col. perform'd the operation at the first attempt, then laying down his pistols was going to unlock the door. Teague catches up that which was loaded, 'Arra Maishter, says he, but now you must take up t'other candle, and let me have my shoot too.' The col. call'd him rogue and rascal to no purpose, Teague was now vested with power, and would be obey'd: Accordingly his master extended the candle, but this being the first time of Teague's performing, he not only miss'd, but shot off a button from the breast of the colonel's coat. So narrow an escape had a good effect, and cur'd him of this humour of turning marksman in his drink.

The Universal Spectator, Jan. 9. No. 118.

Contains two Letters, with the Spectator's answers to them.

The first is from a gentleman, who, about three months since, fell passionately in love with a lady at a ball; gives an account of his courtship, and of the kind reception of his addresses during that time, till of a sudden, without any reason given, or objection made, the lady sent him a peremptory message to desist any further pursuit. Complains that 'tis ungenerous and unjust to keep people so long in suspence, with no design but to gratify female pride and vanity.

To this the Spectator replies, That the lady gave him fair play, and an opportunity of rendring himself agreeable; which when she found he could not, she very civilly, by a third person, desir'd him to desist. However, he says, 'tis but reasonable that the lady should give him a certificate of his good behaviour during his courtship.

The second letter is from a young lady of 15, who signs herself Carolina, which may be summ'd up and comprized in those two queries.

1. May a Woman entertain several lovers at the same time?

2. After a Woman has once receiv'd a man's addresses, may she with honour turn him off?

To the first he answers, That such a licence might be granted, if nothing was design'd by it but the chusing of the most deserving for a husband; but considering the inconveniences that would necessarily attend such an indulgence, he durst not allow it.

The second query he grants in the affirmative; that is, if she discovers him false and base, or uncapable of making her happy.

Universal Spectator, January, 16. No. 119.

COntains a letter from a physician, in which he describes the miserable condition of his patients, that apply to him on the venereal account. Of this sort the most unfortunate and pitiful object is a woman of the town, who, if not quite abandon'd, gives a loose to her passion on such occasions. The consideration of her past, present, and future state, fills her with distraction, and involves her in endless evils, from which death only can deliver her.

Proceeds to argue with the infamous authors of the misery of these wretches, who first seduce the poor young creatures from their innocence, and then triumph in their wickedness. He who debauches a maiden, and then exposes her to want and shame, is arrived to such a monstrous height of villany, that no word in our language can reach it. Mentions a further species of cruelty, that is, the necessity some of these poor wretches are under, if with child, of applying to a magistrate to procure some pitiful maintenance for her unfortunate babe. ——— When all that is to be done by the father, is to make the best bargain he can with the church-wardens to take it off his hands; which is commonly done for a treat, and 10 or 12 l. So the child is placed upon the parish, and the woman upon the town.

Univers. Spectator, Jan. 23. No. 120.

Entertains his readers with two letters; the first is from Trislitia Stale, who complains that she is continually persecuted, merely because she is an old maid.

Virginity, she says, has not always been a reproach, sees no encouragement in matrimony, and begs the Spectator to reprimand the malaperts, who ridicule chastity; adds, that a single life in woman was esteem'd among the ancient as well as modern Romans; vestals then, and nuns now.

The other letter is from Charlotte Wilful, a young lady of 19, who says she has two admirers. The first is 'squire Scrape, who has 1200 l. per annum, which he keeps in his own hands and farms himself, and therefore is favour'd in pretentions by her father.

Mr 'Myrtle, her mother's favourite, is the other, who, by his own account is near 40, by that of his acquaintance 10 years older, has squander'd away a good estate, but by the death of an uncle is now worth 1000 l. per annum, and is a perfect humourist.

But to both these she prefers Mr Plume of the Innter-Temple, who has no estate, but is of a sweet temper. Concludes with desiring Mr Stonecastle to declaim on parents making choices for their Children, with a stroke on antiquated beaus, and rural animals, and to recommend a fine gentleman with no fortune. Desires, by way of postscript, that he would not delay publishing her letter, because Mr Plume and she had agreed to run away together on Tuesday next.

The Universal Spectator, Jan. 30. No. 121.

AMong all those amusements people find to pass away the time, Poesy and Musik are the most elegantly entertaining. By the ancients they were look'd upon as immediately inspired from above, and the professors reverenc'd as sacred, and the favourites of heaven.

He adds, that we excel the ancients in musick, if not in poetry, and prefers a good English fong, tho' set to a common tune, before the Italian trifling unnatural compositions. The one ravishes the ear, only, the other entertains the understanding also. ——— Hence he takes occasion to recommend A collection of , lately publish'd.

* * *

Free Briton, Jan. 7. No. 58.

THE author refutes a falsity advanced by Mr D'anvers in the Craftsman of the 13th of Dec. where in, speaking of the riot-act, he says, "That an election of Church-wardens hath been already made a handle for putting this law in execution. That the master of a small vessel was kept a whole year in prison, to the loss of his voyage, and almost the ruin of his family, upon happening to go thro' the churchyard, from visiting a friend, an hour after the proclamation was read. Nay, that the poor man might have run the hazard of his life, as well as have been put to further expences, if his late Majesty had not graciously pleas'd to grant him a Noli prosequi."

The falsehood of this story the Free Briton thus corrects. ——— The gentlemen of Greenwich disagreeing upon the choice of a church-warden at Easter 1722, a poll was demanded and a scrutiny afterwards agreed on. The scrutineers met, but a number of dissolute persons tumultuously assembling at the same time, insulted the justices in a rude and outragious manner, (justice Savory receiving a blow on the back by a great stone) so that it was thought proper to read the proclamation in order to disperse them. Among the rioters was Charles Curtis, master of a small vessel. He was with them before, at, and after the proclamation was read, and very notorious by his behaviour; was several times admonished by the justices to depart; and as often very civilly acquainted by them with the ill consequence of his continuance in that riotous assembly. But notwithstanding their repeated admonitions, he still continued, and was found among the rioters an hour and a half after the Proclamation was read, and being even then advised to leave that place, and to avoid the fatal consequence, the said Curtis, still refused to depart, and insisted with uncommon insolence, that he was as much about his business in that place as the justices themselves. Whereupon he was apprehended, committed to Maidstone Gaol, try'd, and convicted, but in compassion to his family his punishment was suspended; but a Noli prosequi was never granted.

The aim of the Free Briton, in this paper, is to shew the inconclusive reasoning of the Craftsman from matters of fact falsely asserted.

Free Briton, Jan. 14. No. 59.

IN the conclusion of this paper is a letter by way of reply to the Craftsman, Jan. 9. wherein that author calls upon the Free Briton to justify the administration for breaking with the Emperor. To which the Free Briton answers, that it will be full time to make a defence when such measures are undertaken; that their insolence is astonishing, in imputing the same crimes to our ministers for which themselves have deserved a halter. Asks the Craftsman whether he imagines the ministry are so fond of the Emperor on the sudden, as to sacrifice the trade of Spain, and abandon all the powers of Europe, only to run into his arms?

In Feb. last an outcry was rais'd on a pretended discovery that the ministry were making up at Vienna by an implicit guarantee of the Emperor's succession to the Austrian Netherlands, as he should settle it; yet this could not be obtain'd of the British councils; and now we are told we are ready to lurch all our allies for his sake.

The authors of the Craftsman allow that this Treaty-breaking measure would be right, provided a certain great man was removed. As if national compacts could be dissolv'd by the change of the minister: The nation must answer for the faith of treaties. Grants that such a conduct might be expected, should this ministry be changed.

It does not rebound to the shame of those who made the treaty of Seville, that the parties have allow'd the Emperor a reasonable time to come into their measures; which if they had not, they would have been charg'd with rashness, precipitation, and every enormity. Concludes with mentioning several injuries and insults that this nation has suffer'd from the Imperial quarter.

free Briton, Jan. 21.

HE applies Job's saying to his friends, Will you lye for God? to the Craftsman, Will you lye for liberty and country? and asks, if he demands impunity for defamatory falsehood?

Breach of faith, which the Craftsman had laid to the charge of the ministry, is the most virulent aspersion that a libeller can utter against any government, and declares his opinion, that spreading false news is no part of the freedom of the press.

He thinks no honest cause wants the assistance of falshood, so no man should lay claim to liberty who adheres not to truth; therefore the Craftsman ought not to complain of severity from the government, unless he will evince the truth of his assertion.

Men think that prosecutions and confinement are very hard, not considering the provocations that urg'd them; and that the worst imputations are charg'd on the councils of the crown, without the least colour of truth. The punishment inflicted on a libelling printer, bears no proportion with the wrongs thus offer'd to a great people.

Distinguishes between opinions offer'd upon national affairs, and misrepresentations of those affairs. The first is not criminal, the other may. Says, these men may be punished on the Statute, as spreaders of false news.

The Craftsman can defend him self no other way then by refuting the charge of falshood.

The Craftsman had suggested that the Government abetted the very practices for which he is under prosecution; and instanced in the pamphlet Sedition and Defamation display'd, which represents the conduct and characters of two persons who have laboured these five years to make this ministry odious, for which reasons the opposite writers spare no invectives to point cur these gentlemen Weekly, as Traitors and Villains. The Free Briton here justifies the characters complain'd of.

Free Briton, Jan. 28. No. 61.

HE takes notice that the Craftsman in his reply to the pamphlet called Sedition and Defamation display'd, has not once attempted to show that the characters of two gentlemen there given are in the least unlike or injurious, and maintains that whatever is said of them in that pamphlet is indisputably true; yet observes, that the author admitted, that he who had wronged his friendship, and betrayed his confidence, came into the world with all the advantages that recommend men to the esteem, favour, and approbation of mankind.

The Craftsman on the contrary divests the minister whose character he draws of all those talents and abilities, without which, power is not easily acquir'd or long maintain'd. See p. 4.

But the minister's abilities have been the dread and disappointment of his enemies, and have carried him thro' innumerable difficulties for five years together, and enabled him to baffle all their attempts against him; notwithstanding he is describ'd as setting out in mean circumstances, and recommended to mankind by every bad quality, yet those who object this now, were more than ten years his associates in private life as well as publick affairs. As to what has been said of his being superior in impudence to all, this author replies, that 'twas never heard that he call'd gentlemen scoundrels in public assemblies; reviled the Speeches from the Throne; or, that if affairs were managed as he dictated, he would maintain his Majesty's administration.

Several other scurrilous reflections, thrown out against this honourable person, are answer'd at large in this paper, and some of them charged with notorious falshood.

* * *

The British Journal: or, The Traveller, Jan. 9.

THE author mentions two evils which attend those that trade with pawnbrokers; the first is, persons who have left pledges in their hands, upon offering to redeem them, have been obliged to advance five or six shillings more then they borrow'd on them. The other is the power of the pawnbroker to defraud his customer entirely of his pledge; both which may be redress'd by obliging pawnbrokers to give a receipt to every person borrowing money on pledges, to which both borrower and lender shall subscribe their names, and each of them take a copy.

In some considerations on the stage, opera's, and the force of musick, he says, that an opera ought to be as regularly conducted, and the characters as justly maintain'd; the same end propos'd, and as large room for the exercise of a fine genius, as in tragedy or comedy. That a compleat opera set to musick would have an advantage over tragedy. Is not pleased with the Recitative of an opera, because 'tis the musick of the songs only that dwell on the memory.

Distinguishes between the grand-opera and those ballad-opera's now in vogue, which latter, if well set to musick, might deserve applause.

Commends Addison's Rosamond as a beautifull piece of poetry, both in fable and language. In it is maintain'd the dignity of tragedy, the humour of comedy, and the principal end of opera's; i.e. the encouragement of virtue, discouraging vice, and probability through the whole is preserv'd.

The British Journal, Jan. 23.

RElates the history of two traytors, Edric the father, and Edric the son, who lived near 800 years a go; from which he collects and concludes with this lesson to princes, that they ought to be cautious whom they trust, and to pry with piercing eyes into the conduct of their ministers, and the motives of their counsels.

* * *

An Extract of a Discourse made to the Royal Society, in Defence of Mr. Cheselden's intended Operation on the Ear of a condemn'd Malefactor.

Daily Courant. Jan. 17.

THE author first observes, that the skin, commonly call'd The Drum of the Ear, is not the organ of hearing, as was vulgarly thought; for the proof of which he offers a great number of reasons and observations of his own, as well as the opinions and reasons of the most learned and judicious anatomists. He then observes, there are two passages to the organs of hearing; one by the outward ear, the other thro' the back part of the mouth, thro' which some people can hear, who cannot hear thro' the outward ear. In this case he supposes the sound may be interrupted by the drum of the ear, which is seated in this passage, and being diseased, may hinder sounds from passing to the internal parts, where are seated the proper organs of hearing: In this case only, he supposes, that perforating the drum may prove a remedy for deafness, as depressing the chrystalline humour of the eye (vulgarly call'd couching a cataract) is daily found to be a remedy for blindness; and yet that operation has been as indecently and ignorantly ridicul'd as the experiment of Mr. Cheselden's; one writer against that operation not scrupling to give his book the following title, A new method of recovering the sight by putting out the eye. He also observes, that the scituation of the drum is such, that the operation may be easily made by a skilful person; and it being a very thin skin, he presumes it will not be very painful; and if so, the person who is to undergo the experiment will purchase his life upon very easy terms: But supposing it should be very painful; (which 'tis hop'd it will not be) on whom can the first experiment be so fitly made, for the service of mankind, as on one whose life is already forfeited to the publick?

[See page 10. Col. 2.]

* * *

Read's Weekly Journal, Jan. 16.

ENtertains his readers with a letter from a correspondent concerning the present state of the Law; takes notice of the spleen which in general appears against lawyer and law; says, that the multiplicity of statutes is one of the greatest grievances of this kingdom. Quotes an opinion of a learned judge, that the best way to reform the law, was to abrogate all the acts made for its amendment. Asserts, that the founding a proper Corpus Juris, is the highest point of policy in a well order'd state. The old English method of proceeding against debtors, being judg'd inconvenient, produced the act on which was founded the Capias in detinue, as the shortest way of recovery. Complains of fictitious suits, particularly in ejectments. He resents likewise the encouragement given in every court to the multitude of suitors, as contrary to the very end of justice. Proposes some remedies for these evils, by an act empowering commissioners to inspect into

1. The condition of the law in general, common and statute; what of them may be repealed, and what not.

2. To frame proper instructions to direct those who are instructed with this execution of the law.

3. To examine into the nature of actions on the case, which by judge Dodderidge is declared to be a feigned action contrived in deceit of the law.

4. To contrive how to prevent vexatious and litigious suits, by lessening the credit of parole agreement.

5. That every practiser of the law be obliged by oath to give his opinion justly to the best of his knowledge, to practise fairly, and by an indirect means procure false judgment in any case.

Lastly, To compile a compleat body of the law, with an institute of maxims and rules, a treatise of practice, and the forms to be observed by courts.

See more concerning the amending the law, p. 77. 98. 100. 106. and the substance of the Act passed this Sessions of Parliament relating there to p. 213.

Poetical Essays for JANUARY.

* * *

ODE for New-Years-Day by C. Cibber, Esq;

Recitativo.

Once more the ever circling Sun

Thro' the cœlestial signs has run,

Again old Time inverts his glass,

And bids the annual Season pass:

5The youthful Spring shall call for birth,

And glad with op'ning flow'rs the Earth:

Fair Summer lead with Sheaves the Field,

And golden Fruit shall Autumn yield,

Each to the Winter’s want their store shall bring,

10'Till warmer genial Suns recall the Spring.

Air.

Ye grateful Britons bless the Year,

 That kindly yields increase,

While plenty that might feed a War,

 Enjoys the guard of peace,

15Your plenty to the Skies you owe,

 Peace is your Monarch’s care;

Thus bounteous Jove and George below

 Divided empire share.

Recitativo.

Britannia pleas’d, looks round her realms to see

20Your various causes of Felicity!

(To glorious War, a glorious peace succeeds;

For most we triumph when the Farmer feeds)

Then truly are we great when truth supplies

Our Blood, our Treasures drain’d by victories.

Turn happy Briton, to the throne your Eyes,

26 And in the royal offspring see,

How amply bounteous providence supplies

 The source of your felicity.

Air.

Behold in ev'ry Face imperial Graces shine

All native to the Race of George and Caroline:

31In each young Hero we admire

The blooming virtue of his sire;

In each maturing fair we find,

Maternal charms of softer kind.

Recitativo.

35In vain thro' ages past has Phœbus roll'd,

E're such a sight blest Albion could behold

Thrice happy Mortals, if your state you knew,

Where can the Globe so blest a nation shew?

All that of you indulgent Heav'n requires,

40Is loyal Hearts, to reach your own Desires.

Let Faction then her self born views lay down,

And Hearts united, thus address the Throne.

Air.

 Hail! Royal Cesar, hail!

  Like this may ev'ry annual Sun

45  Add brighter Glories to thy Crown,

 'Till Suns themselves shall fail.

Recitativo.

May Heav'n thy peaceful Reign prolong,

Nor let to thy great Empires wrong,

Foreign or native Foes prevail.

 Hail, &c.

See p. 10, 11.

ODE humbly inscribed to the Poet Laureat, taken from Lon. Evening Post Jan. 7. as there said by Step. Duck, Esq.

Semel in anno ridet Apollo.

Recitativo.

Accept, O Cibber, the adven'’rous lay,

Which, to your honour, dares both sing and say:

To you great Prince of Comedy and Song,

The Tributes o' inferior Pens belong;

You, who by royal favour wear the Bays,

And grateful eternize our Monarch’s Praise.

Air.

  Let us sing to the King,

 All about the circling Year;

  Sing a floreat to the laureat,

 Ev'ry Season brings good cheer,

 Grateful Britons, thank the bard,

 Who by Peace does plenty guard,

 Such as hungry War does need,

 War, that does on plenty feed.

Recitativo.

Phœbus with joy looks Britain round to see,

The happy state of his lov’d Poetry,

To Eusdes, Cibber gloriously succeeds;

Wit triumphs most, when bard like farmer feeds.

Then truly are we great, when he can shew

The way his own out-doings to out-do.

Cast, envious Poets, on his Verse your Eyes,

 Behold the offspring of his brain.

How his rich Genius constantly supplies

 The source of his poetick vein!

Air.

Thro'out the whole what matchless Graces shine;

Paraphonalia sparkles in each Line;

 Native to Cibber, we admire

 The style and fancy, wit and fire,

 In each maturing Word we find

 Something soft for thought design’d.

Recitativo.

Complain not Sol, of fruitless ages past,

Think your self blest in such a Son at last!

Thrice happy Poets, if you knew your state;

Britain alone can boast a Laureat.

For if, like him, to Grandeur you aspire,

By his Example reach your own desire.

Let criticks then their self born views lay down;

And Bards in chorus thus sing round the town.

Air.

 Hail! Matchless Colley, hail!

Like this may ev'ry New Year’s Day

Add fresher Honour to the Bay,

 'Till Bay itself shall fail.

Recitativo.

May Heaven preserve thy Genius clear,

For Christmas comes but once a Year.

 Give the Poet then some Ale.

  Ale, &c.

From Fog’s Journal, Jan. 9.

An Ode on Twelfth Day. In Imitation of an Ode on New Year's-Day.

Past Two o’Clock, and a frosty Morning.

Recitativo.

Once more the Bell-man bids us wake,

 With Prophesy of Ale and Cake;

 Tells us before we sleep again,

 Tom shall be King, and Nancy Queen,

 While good Sir Knight a Knave appears,

 And Madam the Slut's Ensign wears.

 Such Kings and Queens should Colly sing,

 Such Worthies in his numbers ring;

While both the British soil and Foreign Shores,

To form the Cake, unite their grateful Stores.

Air.

 Ye grateful Footmen, bless the Day,

  That such Preferments give;

 Ye joyful Cook-maids drink away,

  While ye your Title lives.

 Good Ale you to the Brewer owe,

  The Cake’s the Baker’s care,

 And all above, and eke below,

  Combine to give good fare.

Recitativo.

Tom thinks himself a real Monarch grown,

And, pleas'd looks round the Kitchen as his own.

While Nancy with him royal Honour shares,

And on the other Maids majestick stares.

The New King's Health is first, the Queen's succeed:

And most he triumphs, who most freely feeds.

Then all are truly great when Ale supplies

The want of Riches and of Dignities,

And the exhausted Jugg gives victories.

Turn happy Will, Jack, Kate, and Doll, your eyes

 On yon Two Chairs, and there observe

How well the new rais’d prince the place supplies

 Which both, as you must own, deserve.

Air.

Behold in each pleas'd face what lovely graces shine,

How on their little realm they look with air benign,

 Such, Will, must you and Kate appear,

 If Fortune the ensuing Year,

 Convinces us she is not blind,

 By proving to your merit kind.

Recitativo.

In vain above Three Hundred Days have pass’d

Between this joyful Twelfth Day and the last,

No Scene like this has chear’d your Hearts and Eyes,

Where shall we find such bliss beneath the Skies?

All that Sir William and my Lady ask,

Is, that when all have well perform’d their Task,

With silent pace, without your Shoes you’ll tread

And each go peaceably, tho' drunk to bed.

Air.

 Hail! merry Monarch, hail!

Like this may ev'ry annual Cake

You merrier still and merrier make,

 'Till Cakes themselves shall fail.

Recitativo.

May you all long your Places keep;

May no makebate amongst you creep,

 With Peace destroying Tale.

A HYMN to the LAUREAT,

Introduced in the Whitehall and London Evening Posts, Jan. 9. thus

Sir, By giving a Place in your Paper to the following Unfashionable Hymn you will very much oblige Sir,

your Humble servt.

Cibber, accept these feeble lays

 From an unskilfull muse,

Who tries with artless Note, to praise

 What envious men abuse.

Nature and Art in thee combine;

 Thy Comedies excell:

With Wit and Sense replete, they shine,

 And read politely well.

 Who sees th' inconstant[1] Loveless range,

 But mourns Amanda’s fate?

Each female Heart approves his change,

 And pants for such a state.

When Lady Betty[2] treads the stage,

 All modish prudes submit:

What Foppington adorns our age,

 With the same Grace and Wit?

In Townley[3] see the modern Wife!

 How full of Vice! how blam'd!

How ruin'd by the modern Life!

 How valu'd, when reclaim'd!

May empty Journals weekly rail;

 May all dull bards repine:

If Wit unequall'd shou’d prevail,

 The Laurel's justly thine.

↑ Love's last shift.

↑ Careless Husband.

↑ Provok'd Husband.

To the Author of the Whitehall Evening Post.

Jan. 12

SIR,

As you are an impartial Writer, I dare say you will do justice on both sides.

The Verses on the Laureat, in yours of Saturday last, have occafion'd the following reply; which I hope you will give a Place to in your next, to show that we can be quick as well as smart, upon a proper occasion. And as I think it the lowest mark of a scoundrel to make bold with any man's character in print, without subscribing the true name of the author; I therefore desire, if the Laureat is concern'd enough to ask the question, that you will tell him my name, and where I live, till then I beg leave to be known by no other than that of your servant,

Francis Fair-play.

AH! hah! Sir Coll. is that thy way,

 Thy own dull Praise to write?

And would'st thou stand so sure a lay?

 No! that's too stale a bite.

Nature and art in thee combine,

 Thy Talents here excell:

All shining brass thou dost outshine,

 To play the cheat so well.

Who sees thee in Iago's part,

 But thinks thee such a Rogue?

And is not glad with all his heart,

 To hang so sad a Dog?

When Bays thou play'st, thy self thou art,

 For that by nature fit,

No blackhead better suits the part,

 Than such a coxcomb wit,

In Wronghead too, thy brains we see,

 Who might do well at plough;

As fit for Parliament was he,

 As for the Laurel thou.

Bring thy protected verse from Court,

 And try it on the Stage;

There it will make much better sport,

 And set the town in rage.

There beau's, & wits, & cits, and smarts,

 Where hissing's not uncivil

Will shew their parts to thy deserts,

 And send it to the devil.

But, ah in vain 'gainst thee we write,

 In vain thy verse we maul;

Our sharpest satyr's thy delight,

For [1]Blood! thou'lt stand it all!

Thunder, 'tis said, the Laurel spares,

 Nought but thy brow could blast it,

And yet! O curst provoking Stars!

 Thy comfort is, thou hast it.

↑ Epilogue to the Non-juror.

* * *

An ODE to Sir Robert Walpole, for New-Year's Day, 1731.

I.

Guardian of Britannia's glory,

 Life and soul of Europe's peace,

Greatest name in modern story,

 May thy happy years increase!

Brighter still thy genius shining,

Richer blessings yet designing.

II.

Thee, the sacred muses hailing,

 Dulness seat'd in slumber lies;

Arts and wealth thro' thee prevailing,

 Faction far confounded flies;

Happy prince in thee confiding:

Happy people of thy guiding!

III.

Viewing present, past, and future,

 As thou keep'st eternal watch,

Janus say (for thou are neuter)

 Hast thou seen our Walpole's match?

Phœbus in thy radiant journey,

Canst than to a greater turn thee?

IV.

Lucky omens, minutes smiling,

 All the friendly cares appear?

Every discontent beguiling,

 Crown the Patriot's coming Year:

In his perfon strongly guarded,

Counsels blest, and works rewarded.

An Epitaph on Mrs. Oldfield.

Hic Juxta requiescit,

Tot inter poetarum laudata nomina,

ANNA OLDFIELD,

Nec ipsa minore laude digna,

Quippe quæ eorum opera

In scenam quoties prodivit,

Illustravit semper, & nobilitavit.

Nunquam ingenium idem ad partes diversissimas

Habilius suit.

Ita tamen ut ad singulas.

Non facta, sed nata esse videretur.

In tragediis

Formæ splendor, oris dignitas, incessus majestas

Tanta vocis suavitate temperabantur

Ut nemo esset tam agrestis, tam durus spectator,

Quin in admirarionem totus raperetur.

In comedia autem

Tanta vis, tam venusta hilaritas, tam curiosa felicitas

Ut neque sufficerent spectando oculi,

Neque plaudendo manus.

English'd thus.

Near this place rests the body of Anne Oldfield, amid so many celebrated Poets, herself not less deserving to be celebrated; for whene'er she trod the stage, her actions always illustrated and ennobled their compositions. Never was one Genius so adapted to the most different parts; she seem'd not made but born for each distinctly. In tragedy her noble presence, elevated speech, and majestic step, temper'd with so peculiar a sweetness of voice, never fail'd to transport the most rustic and insensible into admiration. In comedy she discover'd such a winning air, such a sprightly and becoming gayety, and so happy an address, that neither eyes were satisfied with seeing her, nor hands weary of applauding.

Another.

Fashion'd alike by nature and by art,

To please, engage, and int'rest ev'ry heart:

In publick life, by all who saw, approv'd

In private life, by all who knew her lov'd.

Another.

 OLDFIELD lies here retir'd, undrest,

The curtain drawn, her part is done;

 Ye that remain to act your best,

Must also make your exit soon;

 How happy then, if worthy praise,

 Ye can such lasting plaudits raise!

Another.

EXIT

Anna Oldfield;

Valete & plaudite.

Another.

Hic jacet Anna Oldfield.

 Jam mea preacta est,

Mox vestra agetur fabula.

Vos valete & plaudite.

Mrs. B-rb-r, to Mrs. C--s-r, at Bath.

WHen lately you invited me,

 With Carteret I din'd;

And in return, most gen'rously

 To Onslow I resign'd.

On Opportunity we seize,

 For search the Nation round,

Such Commoners and Peers as these

 Are rarely to be found.

Our Situation chang'd, you see

 How pleasure fleets away;

 But yesterday you envy'd me,

 I envy you to day.

EPIGRAM on a LADY, stung by a BEE.

To heal the wound the Bee had made

 upon my Delia's face,

Its honey to the wound she laid,

 and bid me kiss the place.

Pleas'd I obey'd, and from the wound

 suck'd both the sweet and smart:

The honey on my lips I found,

 the sting went thro' my heart.

* * *

* * *

THE

Monthly Intelligencer.

JANUARY, 1731.

* * *

Friday, January 1.

THEIR Majesties received the compliments of the Nobility for the New Year; among the rest, of the Lord Carteret, who was graciously receiv'd.

At the same time the Ode for the Day, compos'd by Colly Cibber, Esq; Poet-laureat, was perform'd; the Mufick by Mr. Eccles, and the vocal by Mr Hughs, Mr. Gates, &c. [See the said Ode, p. 20, and Remarks on it, p. 10, 11.]

Forty mathematical Boys, educated in Christ's Hospital, in the school founded by K. C. II. were, according to annual Cuftom, presented to his Majesty.

His Majesty order'd 30 l. per. Ann. to be paid out of the Treasury towards the support of the Poor of the Parish of St. Mary le Strand.

Saturday, Jan. 2.

Great talk of an Experiment to be made on Charles Ray in Newgate, a Malefactor repriev'd on that Occasion. It was said to be in order to discover whether Deafness is not to be cured by purging. The Tympanum was to be cut by an Instrument, in order to demonstrate whether the Hearing proceeds from the Tympanum, or the Nerves that lie between that and the Conceptor of the Ear; it being the Opinion of some that Deafness is principally occasion'd by Obstructions in the said Nerves, See p. 10, 18, 19.

Geo. Burrington, Esq; Gov. of North Carolina, set out to embark for his Government.

Sunday, Jan. 3.

Dr. Greenwood, newly appointed Chaplain, preached before their Majesties, the Pr. of Wales, and three eldest Princesses, at the Chapel-royal at St. James's; the Nobility attended in their Robes and Collars, and the Duke of Dorset Lord Lieut. of Ireland carried the Sword of State.

Monday, Jan. 4.

The Lady Chaplin, Relict of Sir John Chaplin, of Tathwel in Lincolnshire, Bar. brought to bed of a Daughter. This Lady had a Writ de Ventre inspiciendo issued against her some Months ago, by the Heirs at Law; and by her nor having an Heir Male, 3000 l. per. ann. descends with the Title to Thomas Chaplin, Esq; and an Estate of about 2000 l. per. ann. to Sir John's two Sisters, after a 3d Share to Mrs. Chaplin.

Advice came of 3 Incendiaries, or as there call'd, Bristol Firemen, being taken up at Barnstaple, and conducted to Exeter Gaol. One was handsomely dress'd, and had a considerable Sum about him.

Two Hundred Recruits sent from the Savoy, to reinforce the Garrisons of Gibraltar and Port Mahon.

Tuesday, Jan. 5.

The Corpse of the late Earl of Delerain was a few Nights since privately interr'd at Leadwell in Oxfordshire.

Wednesday, Jan. 6.

This being Twelfth-day, his Majesty, the Prince of Wales, and the Kts Companions of the Garter, Thistle, and Bath, appeared in the Collars of their respective Orders. Their Majesties, the Prince of Wales, and three eldest Princesses, preceded by the Heralds, &c. went to the Chapel-royal, and heard Divine Service. The D. of Manchester carried the Sword of state. The King and Prince made the offerings at the altar, of gold, frankincense and myrrh, according to annual custom. At night their Majesties, &c. play'd at Hazard with the nobility, for the benefit of the Groom-porter; and 'twas said the K. won 600 guineas, the Q. 360, Pr. Amelia 20, Pr. Carolina 10, the E. of Portmore, and D. of Grafton several thousands.

At night Mr. Sharpless, high constable of Holborn division, together with several of his petty constables went to search a notorious gaming-house behind Grays-Inn-walks, by vertue of a warrant under the hands and seals of the Rt. Hn. Ld. Delawar and eleven other of his Majesty's justices of the peace for the County of Middlesex, but the gamesters having previous notice, they all fled, except the master of the house, who was apprehended, and bound in a recognizance of 200 l. penalty, pursuant to the old statute of 33 H. VIII.

It may be some fort of amusement to present our readers with the following list of officers established in the most notorious gaming houses.

1. A Commissioner, always a proprietor, who looks in of a night, and the week's accompt is audited by him and two others of the proprietors.

2. A Director, who superintends the Room.

3. An Operator, who deals the cards at a cheating game called Faro.

4. Two Croupers, who watch the cards, and gather the money for the Bank.

5. Two Puffs, who have money given them to decoy others to play.

6. A Clerk, who is a check upon the puffs, to see that they sink none of the money that is given them to play with.

7. A Squib, is a puff of a lower rank, who serves at half salary, while he is learning to deal.

8. A Flasher, to swear how often the bank has been stript.

9. A Dunner, who goes about to recover money lost at play.

10. A Waiter, to fill out wine, snuff candles, and attend in the gaming room.

11. An Attorney, a Newgate solicitor.

12. A Captain, who is to fight any gentleman that is peevish for losing his money.

13. An Usher, who lights gentlemen up and down stairs, and gives the word to the Porter.

14. A Porter, who is generally a soldier of the foot guards.

15. An Orderly man, who walks and down the outside of the door, to give notice to the porter, and alarm the house, at the approach of the constables.

16. A Runner, who is to get intelligence of the justices meeting.

17. Link-boys, Coachmen, Chairmen, Drawers, or others, who bring the first intelligence of the justices meetings, or of the constables being out, at half a guinea reward.

18. Common bail, Affidavit-men, Ruffians, Braves, Assassins, cum multis aliis.

At a meeting of the society for propagating christian knowledge, held at Edinburgh, the several officers for the year ensuing were chosen, the stock amounted to 12,563 l. 12. s. 5 d. number of schools, 132; and they resolved to send three missionaries to preach the Gospel to the Indians on the borders of New-England; to which they are encouraged by a gift of Dr. Daniel Williams, late a presbyterian minister in England.

Thursday, Jan. 8.

Charles du Bois, chosen governor of the corporation for smelting down lead with sea-coal and pit-coal. And Samuel Beachcroft, Esq; deputy-governor of the same.

Mr Franklin was taken into custody for printing and publishing the Craftsman of the same day; as were likewise 3 persons for publishing it.

Ended the sessions for Westminster, when Sir J Gouson was again chosen chairman, and desired to print his charge.

Terence Magrabe, a young man in the French interest, having inveigled many Irish papists to enter into that service, and it being soon known by their refusing to work, the magistrates of Birr in Ireland, assembled a Posse to secure them, but they were not able to apprehend above three, the rest escaped with their Captain, and took shipping near Dublin.

Saturday, Jan. 9.

The new-born son and heir of W. Pulteney, Esq;. baptized by the name of William; the E. of Berkeley, and E. of Winchelsea and Nottingham, being Godfathers, and the Dutchess-dowager of Marlborough Godmother.

Sunday, Jan. 10.

Dr. Lynch preached before their Majesties at St. James's chapel; the Earl of Orkney carried the sword of State.

Monday, Jan. 11.

The corpse of the lady Dolben, wife of the rev. Sir John Dolben, lately arrived from France, was carried out of town to be interr'd, at Finedon in Northamptonshire. Sir John had also buried 4 sons in 8 months past.

Tuesday, Jan. 12.

Sir Isaac Shard, Kt. and Jn. Fuller, Esq; the present sheriffs, went to Woodstreet compter, and distributed a considerable sum of money to the poor debtors confined there.

Wednesday, Jan. 13.

The merchants having resolved to pay nothing for receipt of debenture money, for the 15 per Cent. and other duties, this day a great many were paid off without any abatement for pretended fees.

Thursday, Jan. 14.

The noted Mary Harvey, alias Machaig, broke out of the Kings's bench, were she was confined for keeping a disorderly house.

friday, Jan. 15.

Began the sessions at the Old baily, when Mr Maynee, a clerk to the Bank was arraigned upon two indictments for erasing and altering 2 bank notes, and pleaded guilty, upon which the Statute was read that makes it felony without benefit of clergy. See p. 216, 403.

His Majesty order'd a pension of 50 l. per Ann. to such of the late King's supearannuated livery servants who are not provided for on the present establishment.

Cork, Jan. 15. This day one Tim. Croneen was, for the murder and robbery of Mr. St. Leger and his wife at Bally volane, sentenc'd to be hang'd 2 minutes, then his head to be cut off, his bowels to be taken out and thrown in his face; and his body divided in 4 quarters to be placed in 4 cross ways. He was servant to Mr. Leger, and committed the murder with the privity of Joan Condon the servant maid, who was sentenced to be burnt, also of the gardener, whom he knock'd on the head to deprive him of his share of the booty. When he was taken, he said he would have all catholick servants use their protestant masters so, if they would merit heaven. But after Trial, made the following declaration. The Devil was too great with me, I first resolved only to rob my Master, but when I went into the room shot him in his Bed, and gave my Mistress 5 stabs. The Gardener consented to go with me and held the Candle. I took 20 l. and the watch out of my Masters pocket, and then rode off, (having first kill'd the gardener, and given the maid a small share of the money.)

Sunday, Jan. 17.

The Rev. Dr. Clark preached before their Majesties, &c. in the royal chapel at St. James's; the Lord Delawar carried the Sword of State.

Monday, Jan. 18.

Eight persons who were taken up at Norwich, for handing about a treasonable paper, intitled, The D. of Wharton's Reasons, &c. were admitted to bail about this time.

Tuesday, Jan. 19.

The KING's most excellent Majesty elected governor of the royal African company, Sir Robert Sutton, Knt. of the Bath, sub-governor, and Sir Biby Lake, Bar. deputy governor; as also, the following Directors or Assistants.

Solomon Ashley, Esq; John Baker, Esq; *Tho. Bradshaw, Esq; Tho. Bodicoate, Esq; Christian Cole, Esq; *Ro. Cruikshank, Esq; Jos. Danvers, Esq; Rich. Evans, Esq; Dan. Finch, Esq; *Cha. Lloyd, Esq; Peter Meyer, Esq; Hon. Fr. Negus, Esq; *James Oglethorpe, Esq; Hen. Parsons, Esq; Benj. Perin, Esq; Tho. Revel, Esq; Hon. St Tho. Saunderson, Knt. of the Bath Jn. Thompson, Esq; Fran. Townly, Esq; Henry Vander Esk, Esq; *Tho. Watts, Esq; *Wardel-George Westby, Esq;

Those mark'd thus * are in the room of Edward Barker, Wm Corbet, George Johnson, Abr. Reynardson, John Torriano, and Philip Wilkinson, Esqs.

Wednesday, Jan. 20.

The Pr. of Wales entering into the 25th year of his age, there was a splendid appearance of the nobility, and a ball at Court, wich was open'd by his Royal Highness and the Princess Royal.

20. The Duke of Richmond went to court and resign'd his post of Aid-de camp to his Majesty; and also his Commission of Captain of a Troop in the Royal Regiment of Horse-Guards blue, commanded by the Duke of Bolton.

Robert Coke, Esq; brother to the Lord Lovel, resign'd his commission of cornet in the said Regiment.

Several parts of the northern Roads were so cover'd with Snow, that the Scotch peers and commoners in their way to Parliament, were obliged to alight and walk many Miles on foot; and in some places the Snow was so deep, that 50 Men were employ'd to remove it to make it passable. The Snow was deeper in Lancashire than it had been for 20 years past.

Thursday, Jan. 21.

The Parliament met, when his Majesty open'd the Sessions with a most gracious Speech to both houses.

The Ld. Raymond was introduced to the house of Peers, between the Ld Delawar, and the Ld Bingley.

Friday, Jan. 22.

The house of Lords waited up on his Majesty with an Address of thanks to his most gracious Speech from the Throne; to which they received the following Answer.

My Lords,

I thank you for this loyal and dutiful Address. The enabling me to fullfil my engagements with my Allies in all events, will not only effectually secure and continue to my People the advantages stipulated for them by Treaties, but may greatly contribute to the obtaining a general pacification.

Saturday, Jan. 23.

About this time a medal was struck at the Tower, having on one side the Head of Sir Isaac Newton, with this Motto, Felix cognoscere causas; on the reverse a Figure representing the Mathematicks. See p. 64.

Sunday, Jan. 24.

The Rev. Dr. Birch preached before their Majesties, and the Lord Gallway carried the Sword of State, and the Rev. Dr. Clark preach'd before his Highness the Duke, and the two young Princesses.

The Ld Cavendish rode a trial (on a hunter) from Hide Park corner to the lodge in Windsor Forest, in an hear and fix minutes: There was a wager depending between him and Sir Robert Fagg, that his Lordship did not preform the same in an hour and five minutes. It is 21 Miles, and upwards of 5000 l. betted. [His Lordship preformed it on the 7th of February.

Monday, Jan. 25.

Admiral Cavendish, lately arrived with his Squadron from Gibralter, waited on his Majesty, and was graciously received.

Several Prisoners were released out of Woodstreet compter, by Mr. Webb, executor to the late Ld. Chief Baron Pengelly, who, by his Will bequeath'd 500 l. for that purpose.

A duel was fought on the new walk in the upper park at St. James's, between the Rt. Hon. the Ld. Hervey, and the Rt. Hon. Win. Pulteney, Esq; who having closed in, after several passes on both sides, were parted and disarm'd by Sir John Rushout, Bart. and Hen. Fox, Esq; their two Friends who attended them. 'Tis said that the Ld. Hervey had two or three slight wounds, and Mr. Pulteney a small hurt in his left Hand; and that his Lordship gave the Challenge on account of Mr. Pulteney's being the reputed Author of a Pamphlet; entituled, A proper reply to a late scandalous Libel, call'd, Sedition and Defamation display'd.

A Printer at Newcastle upon Tyne taken into Custody, for re-printing some parts of the Craftsman.

In pursuance of the late Act for the better regulation of Juries in the sittings in Middlesex the names of the several Persons summon'd and impanell'd were written on distinct pieces of Parchment, and put into a box, and were drawn out one after another, until 11 Persons whose names were drawn did appear.

The Snows were so deep in some parts of Derbyshire, that the Roads were hardly passable.

As Workmen were digging in the Gardens of Charles Child, Esq; of Waverlay in Surry (where an Abbey was founded above 600 Years ago, by Wm. Giffard then Bp. of Winchester, and Abbot of Waverlay as appears by the Monasticon Anglicanum, vol. 1. p. 703) they found a leaden pot, in which the Heart of a man was preserved in Spirits, supposed from an Inscription on a Tomb in the Cathedral Church of Winchester, to be the Heart of the said Bishop, which was not in the least decayed.

Tuesday, Jan. 26.

His Majesty's ship Biddeford, of 29 guns, put in commission, and Capt. Bernard appointed commander. Also

The Spence Sloop, and the Command given to Lieut. Swale.

Money sent to Deptford to pay 2 Months wages to the Officers and Seamen of his Majesty's Yatchts.

Wednesday, Jan. 27.

His R. H. the D. of Cumberland, stood Godfather in Person to the new-born Son and Heir of the Ld Archibald Hamilton.

Two publishers were taken into Custody of his Majesty's Messengers for publishing a Libel intitled, The Divine catastrophe of the Royal Family of the Stewarts, &c. and the next Day were admitted to Bail.

Thursday, Jan. 28.

Sig. Vignola, resident from the republick of Venice, had a private Audience of leave of the King and Queen.

At Night was a Ball at the Opera-house in the Hay-market.

Brigadier Clayton arrived in Town from Gibralter.

The new Church at Bloomsbury was consecrated by the Bishop of London, by the Name of St George's Bloomsbury, as was also the burying-ground in the Fields adjoyning. The Divine Service was performed by Dr. Crew, and afterwards the Sacrament was administered.

Signior Claudio Re, Minister of the Duke of Parma, was at Court, and notified to his Majesty the death of the said Duke.

Friday, Jan 29.

Sig. Vignola had private Audience of leave of the Prince and Duke.

Ended the Poll for a Member of Parliament for Bedford, the numbers were, for.

Sir Jer Vanaker Sambroke, Bar. 375

Dr. Thomas Brown, ——— 346

29. The court received advice that on the death of the duke of Parma, the dutchess his widow had declared herself four months gone with child; that the duke had made a will in favour of Don Carlos, declaring him lawful heir to his dominions in failure of male issue to his said dutchess, and that the dutchess has likewise made another will to the same purport; and that 10,000 Imperialists had taken possession of the dutchies of Parma and Placentia, on pretence of the dutchess being with child.

A justice of the peace, who had challeng'd Mr. York, a council against him in a ceartin affair, came to Westminster-hall, and asked pardon in open court, upon which by consent the rule for an information against him was withdrawn.

About 3 o'clock this morning a woman of distinction fell in labour at the masquerade, was carried home in her habit, and deliver'd of a son in two hours after.

Saturday, Jan. 30.

This being the anniversary of the martyrdom of K. Cha. I. Dr. Middleton preached before the Ld Mayor and Aldermen of this City, at St. Paul's; the Bp. of Peterborough, before the Lords at Westminster-Abby, and Dr. Littleton at St. Margaret's before the Commons.

Sunday, Jan. 31.

His Majesty did not go to chapel, nor dine in publick.

Divine service was performed in the new church of St. George's Bloomsbury, for the first time since the consecration, by the Rev. Mr. Vernon in the forenoon, and by the Rev. Mr. Copper in the afternoon.

* * *

Melancholy Effects of Credulity in

Witchcraft.

From Burlington in Pensilvania we have an acount, that the owners of several Cattle believing them to be bewitch'd, caused some suspected men and women to be taken up, and trials to be made for detecting them. Above 300 people assembled near the governor's house, and a pair of scales being erected, the suspected persons were each weigh'd against a large Bible; but all of them vastly outweighing it, the accused were then to be tied head and feet together, and put into a river, on supposition that if they swam they must be guilty. This trial they offer'd to undergo, in case as many of their accusers think be served in the like manner; which being done, they all swam very buoyant, to the no small diversion of the spectators, and clearing of the accused.———This has revived a like transaction in Somersetshire in Sept. last, and another in France.

The first is from Frome publish'd in the Daily Journal, Jan. 15. relating, That a child of one Wheeler being seized with strange unaccountable fits, the mother goes to a Cunning Man, who advis'd her to hang a bottle of the child's water, mix'd with some of it's hair, close stopt over the fire, that the witch would thereupon come and break it: Does not mention the success, but a poor old woman, in the neighbourhood, was taken up, and the old trial by Water Ordeal reviv'd. They dragg'd her, shivering with an ague, out of her house, set her astride on the pomel of a saddle, and carried her about two miles to a mill-pond, stript off her upper cloaths, tied her legs, and with a rope about her middle, threw her in, 200 spectators huzzaing and abetting the riot. They affirm she swam like a cork, tho' forced several times under water; and no wonder, for when they strained the line, the ends whereof were held on each side of the pond, she must of necessity rise; but by haling her from one bank to t'other, and often plunging, she drank water enough, and when almost spent, they poured in brandy to revive her, they drew her to a stable, threw her on some litter in her wet cloaths, where in about an hour after she expired. The coroner upon his Inquest cou'd make no discovery of the ring-leaders, altho' above 40 Persons assisted in the Fact, yet none of them could be persuaded to accuse his Neighbour: so that they were able to charge only 3 of them with Man-slaughter.

The like Credulity in witchcraft occasion'd a tragical Accident at a Village near Mortagne in France, in December last. A Man of that Village had been long ill of a Distemper which puzzled the Physicians; whereupon his Wife believ'd he was bewitch'd, and consulted a pretended Conjurer, who shew'd her the Wizard (her husband's uncle) in a glass of Water, and told her, that, to oblige him to withdraw the Charm, they must beat him, and burn the Soles of his Feet. On her Return she sent for the Uncle, and notwithstanding his Protestations, with the Assistance of her Relations, beat him immercifully, and burnt the Soles of his Feet, and the Crown of his Head in such a manner, that in two Days after he died. The Woman and her Accomplices were seized; she own'd the Fact, and said, if it was to do again, she would do it. See p. 358.

Extraordinary Accidents, and Casualties.

A barbarous Murder was committed the 4th Inst. at Night, on John Williams Carpenter of Cumback in Radnorshire, by stabbing him in the Throat with a Knife, and beating out his Brains with an Ax: His Door being left latch'd, and the Key in the thatch as usual, and no Robbery committed. It was not discover'd till the 7th, when his only Brother William came, and in the presence of abundance of Neighbours, owned the bloody Knife, which together with the washing of his bloody Cloaths by his sweetheart the Night the Murder was committed, and no body to get by his Brother's death but himself, caus'd him to be apprehended, and sent to Presteign Goal; and his Sweetheart was bound to appear against him. See p. 178.

From Dijon in France, 'tis written, that a Person having withdrawn himself, his Relations charg'd one who was his sworn Enemy with his murder, and examin'd him with such exquisite tortures, that, to shorten them he confess'd the crime: where upon he was broke alive, and two others as his accomplices were hanged. The Man suppos'd to he murder'd, soon after return'd home.

Brussels 25. O. S. About 2 o'clock this morning, a dreadful fire broke out in the Arch Dutchess's palace, which with the goods and furniture, and Royal Chapel were laid in ashes in less than 12 hours. The Arch. Dutchess and her ladies only escap'd, almost all the Papers and Records of State being consum'd.

Bourdeaux, Jan. 24. N. S. Forty monks dy'd here in one Night; upon enquiry to discover the cause, a dead Viper was found in a Cask of Wine they had regal'd themselves with, suppos'd to have come in at the bung-hole.

Morlaix, in lower Bretagne, Jan. 11. N. S. By a fire which broke out in the hospital, the whole town was burnt down; the People were reduc'd to the greatest hardships.

Several nuns have dy'd suddenly at Engian, five leagues from Brussels, their Bodies were open 'd, but no marks of Contagion or Poison appearing, some weak People believed it must be by witchcraft, but they could not tell whom to accuse. How ever, the surviving sisters quitted the Cloysters, and with the Bp's consent return'd to their Friends.

The following Narrative, given by a Gentleman of unexcepcionable Honour and Veracity, has been lately published at Edinburgh.

ONE William Sutor, Aged about 37, a farmer in Middle-manse (belonging to the Laird of Balgown near Craighal) being about the month of December, 1728, in the fields with his servants, near his own house, over heard at some distance, as it were, an uncommon skreeking and noise; and they following the Voice, fancied they saw a dark gray-colour'd Dog; but as it was dark night, they concluded it was a Fox, and accordingly were for setting on their Dogs: but it was very observeable, that not one of them would so much as point his Head that way.

About a month after, the said Sutor being occasionally in the same Spot, and much about the same time of Night, it appear'd to him again, and in passing, touched him so smartly on the Thigh, that he felt a pain all that Night.

In December 1729, it again cast up to him at about the same place, and past him at some distance.

In June 1730, it appeared to him as formerly: And it was now he began to judge it was something extraordinary.

On the last Monday of Nov. 1730, about sky-setting, as he was coming from Drumlochy this officious visiter passed him as formerly, and in passing, he distinctly heard it speak these words, Within eight or ten days do or die; and instantly disappear'd, leaving him not a little perplex'd.

Next morning he came to his brother James's house, and gave him a particular account of all that had happen'd: And that night, about 10 of the clock, these two brothers having been visiting their sister at Glanhallow, and returning home, stept aside to see the remarkable spot, where they had no sooner arriv'd, then it appear'd to William, who pointing his finger to it, desired his brother and a servant who was with them, to look to it; but neither of them could see any such thing.

Next Saturday evening, as William was at his sheep-fold, it came up to him, and audibly utter'd these Words Come to the Spot of ground within half an hour. Whereupon he went home, and taking a Sword and a staff in his hand, came to the ground, being at last determin'd to see the Issue. He had scarce encircled himself with a line of circumvallation, when his troublesome familiar came up to him, he ask'd it, In the name of God, who are you? It answer'd, I am David Sutor, George Sutor's Brother: I killed a Man, more than 35 years ago, at a bush by East the road as you go into the Isle. He said to it, David Sutor was a Man, and you appear as a Dog. It answer'd I killed him with a Dog, and am made to speak out of the mouth of a Dog: and I tell you to go bury these Bones.

This coming to the ears of the Minister of Blair, the Lairds of Glascloon and Rychalzie, &c. about 40 Men, went together to the said Isle; but after opening ground in several places, found no Bones.

On the 23d of Decemb. about midnight, when William was in bed, it came to his door, and said, Come away: you will find the bones at the side of the wither'd Bush, and there are but 8 left; and told him at the same time for a sign, that he would find the print of a Cross impress'd on the Ground.

Next day William and his brother, with about 40 or 50 people who had conveen'd out of curiosity, came to the place, where they discover'd the bush, and the cross by it; and upon digging the ground about a foot down found the eight bones: All which they immediately wrapt in clean linen, and being put in a coffin with a mort-cloth over it, were interr'd that evening in the church-yard of Blair, attended by about 100 Persons.

N.B. Several People in that Country remember to have seen this David Sutor; and that he listed for a Soldier, and went abroad about 34 or 35 years ago.

CASUALTIES.

Jan. 3. A Post-boy was shot by an Irish Gentleman, on the Road near Stone in Staffordshire, who dy'd in two Days, for which the Gentleman was imprison'd.

12. Mrs. Goodchild, Wife to a Linen Draper at Charing Cross, being in a Fit fell in the Fire and was burnt to Death. She was two Months gone with Child.

About 2 o'clock in the Morning a Fire broke out at the Black-horse and Trumpet Inn in Crutchet-Fryars, which consum'd some Stabling, Hay, and three Horses.

Mr. Morris, Peruke-maker in Pell-Mall, hang'd himself, being Lunatick.

13. Mr. Wilkins, Brother to the City Plaisterer, kill'd by a Fall from the new Church in Horstydown.

This Morning one Mary Martin was found dead in a Field near Hoxton; a piece of Knife was sticking in her Head, and a Knife under her left Ear; one Chapel belonging to the Work-house in Bishopsgate-street was committed to Newgate for it, and has there confess'd it. See p. 128.

Ships, &c. taken, lost &c, according to Advices this Month.

THE Hunter Stoop, Capt Cliffe from Jamaica, taken on the Cosft of New Spain, by a Spanish Guard de Costa.

The Mary, Capt. Henson of Liverpool, and bound to Jamaica, taken by the Spaniards, who stript the Men, and put them into their Boat with very little Provision.

The Friendship Brigantine, Capt. Ever, bound to Bristol lost on St. Sebastian Point, but the Men lived.

A Boat cast away Jan. 3. at St. Andrew's in Scotland, wherein were Fishermen and 8 young Lads, whom they took in to divert them, but for want of Care, 3 of the latter were drown'd, for which 4 of the Men were imprison'd.

Seven Vessels condemn'd at Yarmouth for Smuggling, and 4 Persons belonging to them committed to goal.

The Globe Pink of London, Capt. Amos Moore, stranded on the Coast of Naples.

The Samuel, Capt Eeverden, bound from London to Boston, ran ashore on the Coast of New England, but t'was thought might be got off.

The Ark, Capt. Wyer, founder'd in her Voyage from St. Christopher's to London, but the Crew was sav'd and carried to New England.

DEATHS

Jan. 1. William Willoughby, of West Knoyle in Wiltshire, Esq; and 700 l. per Annum fell to his Brother Richard Willoughby of Southampton Buildings, Esq;

Sir Peter Verdoen, Kt. late Lord Mayor of Dublin.

Casper White, Alderman of the same City, and Dutch Merchant.

2. Capt. John Turner, at his Seat at Tilford, near Farnham, formerly a Wholesale Mercer in Bucklersbury.

3. Mr. Morris, Coach-maker to his R. Highness the Prince of Wales.

Mr. Oliver Savigny, Cutler to his Majesty.

Dr. Morton, of the College of Physicians.

Mr. Dobbins, Lithotomist and Senior Surgeon of St. Bartholomew's Hospital.

Mr. Boheme of Lincolns-Inn-Fields Play-house.

7. Major Garth, of the fourth Troop of Foot Guards.

Lord Visc. Falkland, in France, buried at the Church of St. Sulpice in Paris, and succeeded in Honour and Title by his eldest Son Lucius Charles Cary, now first Viscount of North-Britain.

8. Mr. William Taverner, Proctor, at his House in Doctor's Commons. He was Son to Mr Jer. Taverner, Face-painter, remarkably honest in his Business, and Author of the 5 following Plays, viz. The faithful Bride of Canada; The Maid the Mistress; The Female Advocates, or, the Fanatick Stock-jobbers; The Artful Husband; The Artful Wife.

9. Robert Jones, of Grays-Inn, Esq;

11. Sir Thomas Jones, at his House in Boswel-Court, Treasurer and Secretary of the most Honourable Society of the Ancient Britons; a Justice of the Peace and Register of Memorials relating to Estates for the County of Middlesex.

The Lady of the Hon. Brigadier Hopkeys, at Chelsea.

——— Sewel, Esq; at Richmond, first Clerk in the Six Clerks Office.

Mr Thomas Monins, a Wine-Cooper at Dover. Upon the Death of Sir Edward Monins of Waldershire in Kent, Bart. the Title descended to the deceased, but he would not take it upon him, however his eldest Son, 'tis said, will.

Mr William Wherwood, Alphabet-keeper, to the Foreign Post-Office.

12. Robert Bristow, aged 105, at Stamford, Lincolnshire, [He had lost his Hearing, but had his Sight and other Senses to the last.]

Philip Markham, Esq; at Claxbury in Lincolnshire.

James Earl of Airley, a young Nobleman, lately marry'd to a Daughter of the Lord Dun, in Scotland.

14. Mr Hughes, Wine Merchant, and one of the Common-Council-Men of Dowgate Ward.

Thomas Ereskine, Esq; Brother to the Earl of Buchan, (at Edinburgh.)

16. Edward Fellows, Esq; formerly Master in Chancery, and Brother to the late Sir John Fellows, Brt.

17. Nathaniel Halbed, Esq; a Pattern-drawer in Cornhill, and Exchange-broker.

Marmaduke Holton, of St Maws in Cornwal, Esq;

16. Walker Weldon, Esq; a Kentish Gentleman, at his House in Bloomsbury-square.

Mr John Wilkinson, a New-England Merchant.

20. Mrs Young, Wife of Thomas Young of Oxfordshire, Esq; in Child-bed, being first deliver'd of two Children. She was Daughter of Sir John D'Oyly, of Chislehampton, Bart.

The Hon. Stroud Foley, Esq; youngest Son to the Ld Foley, dy'd on the Road from Bath.

Thomas Hollis, Esq; an Ironmonger in the Minories, who had formerly been nominated for Sheriff of this City.

The Wife of Michael Lister, Esq; and Sister to the Lady Willoughby de Broke, at Boston, in Lincolnshire.

21. Mr. John Spicer, belonging to the Stamp-Office.

Edward Perdue, Esq; Capt. of a Company of Foot in Ireland.

22. The Lady Catharine Howard Widow and Relict of the late Lord Frederick Howard, and of Sir Rich. Kennedy, of Mount Kennedy in Ireland, Bar. ——— She left Issue only a Daughter by Sir Richard, Elizabeth, married to Sir Wm Dudley, of Clapton in Northamptonshire, Bart. to whom and her Issue by Sir William, she hath left the bulk of her Estate. By her Death, a Rent-charge of 350 l. per annum, falls to Robert Jones, Esq; of Westminster.

23. Doctor Stephen Galloway, a noted Roman Catholick Physician, at his House near Red-Lion Square.

Mr. Trunket, a Perfumer without Temble-Bar, well known at New-Market.

Joseph Aldred, Esq; at Chelsea.

Mr. Jefferson, first Clerk of his Majesty's Board of Works, (at Kensington.)

24. Mr. Timothy Betton, of Mile-End, a Turkey-merchant.

Mr Lumsdale, Boatswain of the Edinburgh Mar of War.

The Relict of Dan. Deering, Esq; at the Bath; she was Sister to Sir Philip Parker Long, Bart. and to the Lady Percival, Wife to the Lord Visc. Percival of Ireland.

25. Mr. Francis Melmouth, a Jamaica Merchant.

Mr Oder, Minister of Dummer in Hampshire.

Dr John Beaumont, a Roman Catholick Gentleman.

28 John Jacob, jun. Esq; Inspector General of the Out-Ports and late one of the Directors of the South-Sea Company, (at Hackney.)

Mr Williams, a celebrated Tragedian, belonging to the Theatre-Royal in Drury Lane.

29. The Rev. Mr Baron, Rector of the united Parishes of St Mary Somerset and St Mary Mounthaw Thames street.

Stephen Monomee, Esq; at his Lodgings at Chelsea.

Mr Berwell, one of the Common Council Men for Cripplegate-Ward.

30. Robert Aldersey, of Spurslow, in the County of Chester.

The Rev. Mr Robert Ham, about the same time, at Crediton, in Devonshire.

Thomas Owen, of Condover-Castle, in the County of Shropshire.

The Rev. Mr Bradley, Rector of Ribsford, with the Chapel of Bewdley in Worcestershire.

31. Theophilus Stephens, Esq; formerly in the Commission of the Peace for the County of Surry.

Mr Benjamin Hacks, Brother to William Hacks, Esq; Member of Parliament.

MARRIAGES.

Jan. 2. MR Jordan, Organ builder, to Mrs Lucy Gooddiard of Red-Lion Street, Holborn.

3. The Hon. George Sommerville, Esq; to Miss Hicks of Gloucestershire.

7 Mr. ——— Clark, an eminent Distiller in Holborn, to Miss Banister of Great Russel street.

Charles Pyett, Esq; to the Daughter and Coheiress of Sir Rich. Sandys, Bar.

8. Mr. Weston, Son of the Ld. Bishop of Exon, to Miss Patrick, Grand-Daughter to the late Bishop of Ely.

Mr. Richard Aeland, a Portugal Merchant, to a Daughter of Peter Burrel, Esq; Representative for the Borough Haslemere.

21. Mr. Venables, a Hampshire Gentleman, to the Relict of Sir Edward Gould.

Edward Warren Esq; high Sheriff of Cheshire, to the Lady Betty Cholmondeley.

PROMOTIONS Civil and Military.

Mr. Green proceeded sen. Surgeon of St. Bartholomew's hospital in the room of Mr. Dobbyn's deceas'd.

Major Cholmondeley, 2d son of E. Cholmondeley, made dep. gov. of Chester Castle, in the room Brig. Newton, deceas'd.

Sir Rob. Raymond Ld. chief justice of the King's bench created a peer of the realm, by the name stile and title of Ld Raymond, Baron of Abbots Langley in the County of Hertford.

Mr. Thomas Granger, Attorney of Lions Inn, made sollicitor of the Wine Licence Office.

Mrs. Leben, Dresser to the two young Princesses, appointed their Governess.

Mr. Allan Lavalade, appointed Alphabet-keeper, at the Foreign Post-Office.

Robert Wright, Esq; is appointed Chief Justice in South Carolina.

―James Abercromby, Esq; Attorney-General.

―Thomas Lowndes, Esq; and his Assigns, Provost-marshal, Clerk of the Peace, and Clerk of the Crown.

―Edward Bertie, and John Hamerton, Esq; Register and Secretary of the said Province.

Will. Smith, Esq; appointed Chief Justice of North Carolina.

―John Montgomery, Esq; Attorney General.

―Nathanael Rice, Esq; Secretary and Clerk of the Crown.

―Daniel Germain, Esq; Provost Marshal and Commissary.

The D. of Argyle, appointed Governour of Portsmouth.

Tho. Sackville, Esq; made a Cornet in the D. of Bolton's blue Guards.

Mr. Nourse, chosen Assistant to his Majesty's Wine-cellar.

William Churchill, Esq; is made Wooodreeve to his Father-in-law, the A. B. of Canterbury.

Abraham Stanyan, and Robert Jackson, Esq; made Commissioners for executing the office of keeper of the privy Seal.

Edw. Williams, Esq; made Groom of his Majesty's removing Wardrobe.

Mr. Richard Cheslyn, Proctor in Doctor's Commons, Dean Register of Writtle, &c. made deputy Register of Surry, in the room of Mr. Chapman deceas'd.

Thomas Adams, Esq; made a Lieutenant Col. in Murray's Foot.

Mr. George Lloyd, made a Cornet in Col. Hawley's Dragoons.

Peter Burjand, Esq; made a Capt. in Biffet's Foot.

Mr. Hugh Whitford, an Ensign in Cathcart's Foot.

Stephen Downes, Esq; appointed to register Deeds, &c. in the County of Middlesex.

Archibald Carmichael, Esq; Page of Honour to the King, appointed Cornet of Horse in the D. of Bolton's Regiment, in the room of Robert Cake, Esq; who resign'd.

Thomas Spicer, Esq; made Cornet of Horse Dragoons, under Major General Honeywood Mr. Tho. Bliss, made one of the Clerks to his Majesty's Board of works, in the room of Mr. Jefferson, deceas'd. (see deaths.)

Sir Harry Vernon, of Farnham in Surry, chosen representative in Parliament, for the Borough of Chipping-wicomb in the County of Bucks, the room of Win Lee, Esq; now one of the Justices of the Court of King's Bench.

Mr. Sharp, appointed one of the Clerks of the Council in the room of Edward Southwel, Esq; deceas'd.

The Hon. Morgan Vane, Esq; second Son to the Rt. Hon. the Lord Barnard, appointed Clerk of the privy Council Extraordinary.

Maurice Morgan, Esq; re-elected for the Borough of Yarmouth in the County of Southampton, his former Election becoming void by his accepting the place of deputy Governor of the Ile of Wight.

Ecclesiastical Preferments conferred on the following Reverend Gentlemen.

THE Rev. Dr. Siddal, Dean of Canterbury, appointed Bp. of St. David's, in the room of Dr. Smallbroke, translated to the See of Coventry and Litchfield; the former to hold his Deanery, and the latter the Living at Withington in commendam.

Mr. Hayter, Chaplain to the Arch-bishop of York, made Sub-dean in that Cathedral.

Mr. Bundy, Chaplain in ordinary to his Majesty, presented to the Living of Chipping Barnet in Hertfordshire, in the room of Mr. Day, who resigned.

Mr. Craner, chosen Lecturer of St. Mildred's Bread-sreet.

Mr. Wright, presented to the sine cure at Hackney.

Edward Kynaston, L.L.D. Fellow of All-Soul's College in Oxford made Commissary to the Dean and Chapter of St. Paul's in the room of Dr. Harwood, deceas'd.

Mr. Davis, presented to the Rectory of Wyke Regis in Dorsetshire, worth 200l. per Annum.

Mr. Henry Bland, Son to the Dean of Durham, promoted to a Prebendary in the Church of Lincoln, by the Bishop of Lincoln.

Mr. Allet, presented to the Rectory of Much Eystone, in the County of Essex and Diocese of London.

Mr. Thomas Eyre, made Chancellor of the Diocese of Bath and Wells, in the Room of Mr. Pope deceas'd.

Mr. Smith, presented to the Rectory of Sapcote, in the County of Leicester and Diocese of Lincoln.

Mr. Thoresbury, chosen Lecturer of St. Margaret Lothbury.

BANKRUPTS decnared.

SImon Money, of Norwich, Haberdash.

Henry Gooch, ditto, Haberdasher.

George Pell, of Barnaby-street, Wool=jobber, and Merchant.

John Corderoy, of Reading, Berks, Innholder and Chapman.

John Edwards, of Leominster, Herefordshire, Sadler and Maltster.

John Price of Lad-lane, Lond. Haberd.

James Lorimer, of Hethersett, Norfolk, Chapman.

Wm Allen of King's Lynn, Norf. Merch.

Tho. Immines, London, Silk-weaver.

Wm. Hart, Clothfair, Woollen-draper.

Joseph Ridgway, Chester, Glover.

James Smallwood, London, Hosier.

Crossfeild King, St. Giles's Middlesex, Coachmaker.

Wm Pinkard, Southwark, Victualler.

Mary Mason, Beccles, Suffolk, Milliner.

Wm Callow, Spalding, Lincolnshire Draper and Mercer.

An Exact List of the Sheriffs appointed for the ensuing Year.

BErks, William Hawkins, Esq.

Bedford, Will. Lamb Esq;

Bucks, Bernard Turner, Esq;

Cornwall, Nicholas Donnethorn of St. Agnes, Esq;

Cumberland, Sir Rich. Musgrave, Bar.

Chester, Edward Warren of Poynton, Esq;

Cantab. and Hurt. Jasper Lister, Somersham, Esq;

Devon, Roger Melliuish, Esq;

Dorset, Charles Brune, Esq;

Derby, Edward Munday, of Allastree, Esq;

Essex, Will. Peck of Little Samford, Esq;

Gloucester, Samuel Mee, Esq;

Hertford, Richard Chafe, Esq;

Hereford, John Capell, Esq;

Kent, Jam. Brooks of Lewisham, Esq;

Lancaster, Capt. Willian Leigh of Westhoughton, Esq;

Leicester, Richard Green, Esq;

Lincoln, Thomas Pane, Esq;

Monmouth, Henry Nash, Esq;

Northumberland, Tho. Watson, jun. Esq;

Northampton, John Rose of Cotterstoke, Esq;

Norfolk, Thomas Cooper of North-Walsham, Esq;

Nottingham, John Nevill, Esq;

Oxon, Thomas Greenwood, Esq;

Rutland, George Marston, Esq;

Salop, Gray James Grove, Esq;

Somerset, Will. Francis of Comb Flory, Esq;

Stafford, William Robins, Esq;

Suffolk, Nathaniel Acton, Esq;

Southampton, Charles Cole, Esq;

Surry, Percival Lewis, Esq;

Sussex, John Board of Paxhill, Esq;

Warwick, Richard Symonds, of Woolbey, Esq;

Worcester, Richard Bourn, Esq;

Wilts, Hen. Skelling of Draycot, Esq;

York, Bilby Thompson, Esq;

South Wales.

Brecon, Rees Price of Cwm Clyd, Esq;

Cardigan, John Lloyd, Esq;

Carmarthen, Tho. Gwynn of Gwempa, Esq;

Glamorgan, John Carne of Nash, Esq;

Pembroke, John Laugharn of Lantythen, Esq;

Radnor, Step. Harris of Bestbroke, Esq;

North Wales.

Anglesey, Henry Powel Llaugesuy, Esq;

Carnarvon, Wm Butler of Lyscan, Esq;

Denbigh, Tho. Salisbury, Esq;

Flint, Tho. Wynne of Maes y Coed, Esq;

Merioneth, Will. Price, Esq;

Montgomery, Valentine Hughs of Park, Esq;

The Circuits for the Lent Assizes.

Norfolk Circuit.

Ld Chief Justice Raymond,

Mr Justice Page.

Bucks, Monday, March 1, at Aylesbury.

At Bedford, Thursday 4.

At Huntingdon, Saturday 6.

At Cambridge, Monday 8.

Norfolk, Thursday 11, at Thetford.

Suffolk, Monday 25, at Bury St Edm.

Home Circuit.

Ld Ch. Justice Eyre, Mr Justice Probyn.

At Hertford, Monday March 8.

Essex, Wednesday 10, at Chelmsford.

Kent, Tuesday 16, at Rochefter.

Sussex, Monday 22, at East Grinsted.

Surry, March 25, at Kingston.

Western Circuit.

Ld Chief Baron Reynolds,

Mr Justice Denton.

Southampton, Tuesday March 2, at Winchester.

Wilts, Friday 5, at Sarum.

Dorset, Wednesday 10, at Dorchester.

Somerset, Saturday 13, at Taunton.

Cornwall, 20, at Launceston.

Devon, Thursday 25, at Exeter.

Northern Circuit.

Mr Baron Carter, Mr Baron Comyns.

York, Monday, March 8.

Lancaster, Saturday, March 20.

Midland Circuit.

Mr. Justice Price, Mr. Baron Thomson

At Northampton, Tuesday March 9.

Rutland, Friday 13, at Oakham.

At Lincoln, Monday 15.

At Nottingham, Saturday 20.

At Derby, Tuesday 23.

At Leicester, Saturday 27.

At Coventry, Tuesday 30.

At Warwick, the sane Day.

Oxford Circuit.

Mr. Justice Fortescue Aland,

Mr. Justice Lee.

Berks, Monday March 1, at Reading

At Oxford, Wednesday 3.

At Gloucester, Saturday 6.

At Monmouth, Thursday 11.

At Hereford, Saturday 13.

At Shrewsbury, Thursday 18.

At Stafford, Tuesday 23.

At Worcester, Saturday 27.

Remarkable ADVERTISEMENTS.

IN the Gazette, Jan. 30. 'tis advertis'd, that in July 1729, at Bentworth in the County of Southampton, a barn was set on fire, and the corn and grain therein, the Stables and out houses adjoining were entirely burnt. Several messuages in the said parish have since been consumed in the same manner, and Bentworth, it self threatned to be laid in ashes; his Majesty's pardon is promised to any one that would discover his Accomplice.

In the Gazette of the same date, 'tis advertis'd, that the widows of such half-pay Officers as serv'd, and to whom they were marry'd in the year 1716, may receive their proportions of the sum of 1500 l. granted the last Sessions of Parliament for that purpose.

London Evening Post, Jan. 28th. 'tis advertis'd from Whitehaven, that a vessel failed for London, laden with the late Mr. Wood's ore, coals, cinders, and lime-stone, to be carried to Chelsea, to give a Specimen that iron is to be made from the ore and pit-coal. A reason is demanded why Chelsea, that produces neither, is a better place to make iron, than the neighbourhood of Whitehaven, where there is plenty of both, unless there was design of imposing upon the World?

Any poor person may be cured of the Ague gratis, by a dose only, which may be contained in a gill-glass, and never known to fail. To be had of Mr. Sam. Tripland, at the Coach-maker's Arms in Great-windmil street, over-against the Hay-market.

Letters parent were granted to Mr. G. Kettle of Southwark, for making and dying of hats and ruffs of different colours, except black.

The Course of EXCHANGE.

Amsterdam 34 11

Ditto at Sight 04 8

Rotterdam 35

Antwerp 35 7

Hamburgh 33 7

Paris at Sight 32

Bourdeaux ditto 31 1⁄2

Cadez 42

Madrid 42

Bilboa 41 1⁄2

Leghorn 50 1⁄2

Genoua 54 3⁄4

Venice 48 1⁄2

Lisbon 5s. 5d. 1⁄8

Porto 5s. 5s.

Dublin 11 7⁄8

STOCKS.

South Sea 103 5⁄8

Annuities 106 1⁄2

Bank 144 1⁄2

Bank Cir. 5 l. 12 s.

India 189

3 per Cent. 95

Mil. Bank 109

Afric. 49

York Building 24 3⁄4

Royal Exch. Ass. 93 1⁄4

London dit. 12 1⁄4

Equivalent 105

Eng. Copper 3 l.

Welsh dit. 2 l. 18 s.

India Bond 5 l. 12 s.

S. S. dit. 5 l. 1 s.

South Sea Stock sells as above, for the opening, with the Dividend of 2 per Cent. due at Christmas, will be paid Feb. 12.

Prices of Goods at Bear-key.

per Quarter.

s. s. d.

Wheat 26 to 28 0

Rye 16 20 0

Barley 20 22 6

Oats 12 15 0

Horse-beans 22 26 0

Hog-pease 12 16 0

Boiling pease 16 18 0

Pale Malt 24 28 0

Brown Malt 21 26 0

Tares 20 23 0

Prices of Goods in Hampshire, &c.

s. d. q.

Wheat best 3 9

Barley 2 1

Oats 1 6

Beef per pound 0 3

Mutton 0 3 1⁄2

Prices of Goods, &c. in London.

s. s.

Coals, per Chaldron 27 to 28

Hops 1729, per hundred 30 to 30

Ditto 1730, 35 to 75

Rape Seed per Last 11 l. to 10 l. 10 s.

Lead per Fodder, i.e. 19 C. 1⁄2 on Board, 16 l. 10 s.

Tin in Blocks, 4 l.

Ditto in Bars, 4 l. 2 s. exclusive of 3 s. per C. Duty.

Cochineal, 18 s. 3 d.

Indico, French, 2 s. to 2 s. 6 d.

Ditto Guetimale, 3 s. to 3 s. 3 d.

Ditto Lature, 4 s.

Copper English, the best 5 l. 14 s. per C.

Ditto Ordinary, 4 l. 14 s. per C.

Ditto Barbary, 3 l. to 4 l.

Iron of Bilboa, 15 l. 10. s. per Ton.

Ditto of Sweden, 16 l. 10 s. per Ton.

Tallow, 40 s. per C. or 5 d. 1⁄2 per L.

Country Tallow 1 l. 18 s.

Raisins of the Sun 25 s. per C.

Ditto Malaga frails new 15 s.

Ditto Smyrna new, none

Ditto Alicant, none

Ditto Lipra new, 18 s. 6 d.

Ditto Belvedera, 19 s.

Currants, old 33 s.

Ditto new, 36 s.

Pruens French, 18 s.

Figs 18 s.

Sugar powder best, 59 s. per C.

Ditto second sort

Loaf Sugar double refin'd, 9 d. 3⁄4 per L.

Ditto single, 60 s. to 70 s. per C.

Cinamon, 7 s. 9 d. per L.

Cloves, 9 s. 1 d. per L.

Mace, 17 s. per L.

Nutmegs, 8. s. 7 d. per L.

Sugar Candy white, 12 d. to 17 d.

Ditto brown, 6 d. 1⁄2 per L.

Pepper for Home Cons. 15 d.

Ditto for Exportation, 11 d.

Tea Bohea fine, 12 s. to 14 l. per L.

Ditto ordinary, 10 s. per L.

Ditto Congo, 12 s. to 16 s. per L.

Ditto Pekor, 18 s. per L.

Ditto Green fine, 12 s. to 15 s. per L.

Ditto Imperial, 14 s. per L.

Ditty Hyson, 35 s.

Colchester Bays, six Seals, red List 13 d. per Ell, 9 s. per Piece,

Gold in Coin, 3 l. 81 s. 2 d. per Oz.

Gold in Bars, 3. l. 18 s. 1 d. per Oz.

Pillar pieces of Eight 5 s. 5 d.

Mexico, 5 s. 5 d.

Silver in Bars Standard, 5 s. 5 d.

Wine, Brandy and Rum.

Oporto red, per Ten 68l. to 72l.

Ditto White 56l. a 60l.

Lisbon red none

Ditto white, 54l. a 56l.

Sherry, 28l. a 30l.

Canary new, 28l.

Ditto old, 32l.

Florence, none

French red, 36l. a 50l.

Ditto white, 20l.

Mountain Malaga old, 24l.

Ditto new, 23l.

Brandy French, per Gal. 6s. 3d. a 6s. 6d.

Rum Jamaica, 7s. a 7s. 4d.

Ditto Leeward-Islands, 6s. 6d. a 7s.

Abstract of the London WEEKLY BILL from Tuesday, August 3. to Tuesday August 31.

Christned Males 844 1602

Females 758

Buried Males 990 1969

Females 997

Of which dy'd of Consump. 570, Fevers 249, Small pox 96.

Died under 2 Years old ——— 709

Between 2 and 5 ——— 706

Between 5 and 10 ——— 48

Between 10 and 20 ——— 63

Between 20 and 30 ——— 158

Between 30 and 40 ——— 224

Between 40 and 50 ——— 168

Between 50 and 60 ——— 164

Between 60 and 70 ——— 165

Between 70 and 80 ——— 84

Between 80 and 90 ——— 66

Between 90 and 100 ——— 12

Between 103 ——— 1

* * *

Foreign Affairs

WE think it a proper introduction to the history of the year newly begun, to give our readers a transient view of the situation of Affairs at the conclusion of the last; and as we find this ready done to our hands in the Poft-Boy, Dec. 31. we shall make no apology for epitomizing his essay upon that Subject.

The Clouds in which the fate of Europe was obscur'd at the close of the Year 1729, are not yet dissipated, notwithstanding the efforts of politicians, the number of Negotiations, and the union of four of the most formidable powers in Europe, by the Treaty of Seville.

The allies of Seville now see in what advantageous situation the treaty of Utrecht has put the Emperor in Italy. We find that the Empire, which in the reign of Leopold, could not send 10,000 men to the Rhine or Flanders, without subsidies from England or Holland, can send 20,000 men to Italy, and maintain them there without assistance, its revenue amounting to no less than 15 millions of Florins a year. She now employs her Powers to baffle the projects of those who rais'd her to this grandeur: Projects whose only drift is the Execution of a treaty, wherein the imperial court is one of the principal parties contracting, which treaty was made with two views. The first was an addition to the power of the Emperor in Italy, by bringing under her obedience the two Sicilies. The second chear'd up Spain for the losses she had sustain'd, particularly in the fine branches lopt from that crown, by securing to one of her Infantes the uncertain hope of two successions.

The catholick king and his allies do not undertake or ask any thing that the Imperial court has juft reason to complain of.

The reasons alledg'd by the Imperialists for their complaints are, that an alteration had been made in one single article of the quadruple alliance, which set forth the manner of securing to the Infante of Spain the eventual succession which had been promis'd him. But,

1. This alteration is of no great importance, because the 6000 neutral troops which by the treaty of London were to be garrison'd in Tufcany and Parma, by the treaty of Seville are only turn'd into Spaniards, which are in some sort made neutral by being discharg'd from the oath to their sovereign, and made to take an oath to the Great Duke, and Duke of Parma.

2. This alteration does no prejudice to the Emperor, or threaten him with any hereafter, because his strict and religous observation of treaties will not suffer him to oppose the Infante's promis'd succession; nor will the bona fide of the king of Spain let him employ his 6000 Spaniards on any design but what is stipulated by the treaty of Seville.

3. This alteration was not made without substantial reasons. The Imperialists always opposed the motion for putting Spaniards in garrison in the towns of Tuscany and Parma; and were averse even to the admission of neutral troops; upon which the allies passed the 4th article of the treaty of Seville.

This article was the subject of the late Negotiations. The resolution of the Imperial court to admit of no deviation from the treaty of Quadruple alliance; and that of the court of Spain never to consent to any alteration in the treaty of Seville, occasion'd the preparations for war all the last summer, but ended in preparations offensive and defensive, and were kept from breaking into action by the thread of negotiation; and the opening of this scene is reserved for the year we are now entering upon; but hitherto Things remain in the same situation, Jan. 30.

Constantinople. Since the great revolution made here by the Janizaries in cutting to pieces the late Vizier, Capigi Aga, Capt Bashaw, and Mufti, &c. and afterwards deposing Sultan Achmet, and raising the new Sultan (whose father was depos'd in 1703) to the throne; there has been no settled government. For upon divers pretences these tumultuous rebels were frequently up in arms, demanding several new regulations; particularly the promoting of their favourites, and the removal or death of those who were obnoxious to 'em. All which was comply'd with in order to appease them: But this procedure not satisfying them, and they still continuing mutinous, the Grand Segnior under pretence of holding a general council, got the chief of 'em into his palace, cut 'em all off with their servants; and about 7000 of their followers were strangled, to the great joy of this city; these rebellious people grew so insolent, as to tax families what sums they pleas'd, and even to plunder in the street: But now every thing is reduc'd to the old Ottoman rules of government.

Moscow, Jan. 8. Advices from Derbent fay, that the princes of Georgia passed that place, in their way home much pleased with the honours they have received from this court, and that one of them, who lives near mount Arrarat, had promis'd to send the Empress a relique of Noah's Ark.

Venice, 'Tis currently reported that this republick will equip a squadron of twenty Ships of war, to put to sea early next spring, to watch the motions of the Turks.

Vienna, Jan. 20. Our hopes of an accommodation with Spain encrease daily.

Paris. New proposals of accommodation are negotiating with Spain and the Emperor; and 'tis thought with a fair prospect of success.

Swisserland, Bern. Provision is making in all the protestant cantons for the reception of a great number of Waldenses, who are depriv'd of their liberties and drove from their habitations, by their sovereign the duke of Savoy.

Vienna. There are privately handed about here copies of the Ultimatum (or last proposals) of the allies of Seville, as transmitted hither from Paris; the substance of which is as follows.

1. They would stipulate by a secret article not to oppose the settlement of Succession which the Emperor might make for his Territories in Italy, and which should be freely accepted by the States thereof; and they would engage to guaranty that Settlement.

2. They would stipulate by a secret article, that they could not oppose the advantages of Succession, which the Emperor, with the consent of the different States of Italy, might procure in favour of the archdutchess his daughter; and contribute to maintain what he shall so establish for his daughters, or for any one he shall pitch upon, with regard to his Territories in Italy; and even to guaranty what may be established by the Emperor in consequence of that Settlement.

Seville, Jan. 16. Couriers are continually arriving upon the heels of one another, which occasion frequent councils.

Hague. About the latter end of this month their High Mightinesses wrote a letter to the United Provinces, for the celebration of the 28th of Feb. as a day of solemn thanksgiving, fasting and prayer, which imports in substance, That altho' it has pleas'd God, in his infinite patience and clemency, that we have enjoy'd peace last year, this peace was nevertheless attended with so much uneasiness and difficulty, in relation to the small success of the negotiations set on foot for terminating amicably the differences in Europe, and establishing a general tranquillity, that we are still in a very uncertain and difficult scituation, and have great reason to fear that a war may at last happen, wherein this State may be engag'd, contrary to its inclination: That our apprehension in this respect increases so much the more when we consider, that notwithstanding all the blessings which it hath pleased God to shower down upon our dear Country, the sins and iniquities thereof, far from diminishing, increase daily, to such a degree, that last year horrible, abominable sins appear'd, almost unknown before in this Country; and that we ought to fear, that the patience of the Lord, justly provok'd, ceasing, his Judgments may at last fall upon our dear Country, unless we endeavour to prevent them, by an unfeigned repentance and conversion.

Fairs from the beginning of February to the 12th of March.

1BRomley, Lancashire.

2Ashburn, Derbyshire

Armington. Devonshire

Beconsfield, Bucks

Bromley, Kent

Bromley, Staffordshire

Biggleswade, Bedfordshire

Bugworth, Cheshire

Bridgnorth, Shropshire

Cray, Kent

Devizes, Wiltshire

Dorchester

Eaftlow, Cornwal

Evesham, Worcestershire

Godalming, Surry

Farringdon, Berkshire

Hambleton, Hampshire

Hindon, Wilts

Lyfton Devonshire

Leominster, Herefordshire

Lyme, Dorsetshire

Lynn, Norfolk

Maidstone, Kent

Malton, Yorkshire

Reading, Berkshire

Saltash, Cornwall

3Axbridge, Somersetshire

Boxgrove

Blaife, Cornwal

Frampton on Severn

6Stafford

8Treganon, Cardiganshire

9Landaff, Glamorganshire

14Ashbrittle, Somersetshire

Feversham, Kent

Olney, Bucks

Plympton, Devonshire

22Bath, Somersetshire

Chipping-norton, Oxfordshire

23Baldock, Hertfordshire

24Bourn, Lincolnshire

Blandford, Dorsetshire

Corsham, Wilts

Brome, Somersetshire

Higham ferries, Northamptonfh.

Henley on Thames

East Isley, Berkshire

Tewksbury, Gloucestershire

Uppingham, Rutlandshire

24 Walden, Essex

26Stamford, Lincolnshire

28Chesterfield, Derbyshire

Moveable Fairs for the Month of February, and beginning of March, reduced to this Year.

NOrthalerton, Yorkshire, every Wednesday from Christmas till June.

Hinckley, Leicestershire, three Mondays after Twelfth-day.

Newcastle under Line, March 1st, as Shrove-monday.

Berkhamstead, Hertfordshire, ditto.

Abingdon, Berkshire. On March the 3d, being Ash-Wednesd. this Year.

Condon, Glouceftersh.

Chichefter, Suffex

Dunstable, Bedfordsh.

Eaton, Buckinghamsh.

Exeter, Devonshire

Falkingham, Linc.

Litchfield, Staff.

Royston, Cambridgsh.

Tamworth, Staff.

Tunbridge, Kent

Banbury, Oxf. March 4. as first Thursday in Lent.

Abingdon, Berks. March 8 as first Monday in Lent.

Chertsey, Surry

Chichester, Suffex

Winchester, Hants.

Bedford, March the 9th,

Wickwar, Gloucestershire last Monday in February

Welchpool, Montgomeryshire, March the 8th.

FAIRS the beginning of March.

1Culliford, Devonshire

Langueville, Glamorgansh,

Madrim

2Langadock, Carmarthenshire

3Sevenoke, Kent

5Penzance, Cornwal

6Harif

7Worksop, Nottinghamshire

8Treganon, Cardiganshire

10Downes, Devonshire

12Wrexham, Denbighshire

Woburn, Bedfordshire

Observations in Gardening for the Month of February.

THis is a month of great work for the gardener.

In the kitchen garden renew the heat of your hot-beds with fresh dung, and continue to sow cucumbers and melons as in the former month.

Make a large hot-bed for forward rhadishes, and spring carrots; they may be sown together, because the rhadishes be drawn in March, whereby they will make room for the carrots. The bed must be cover'd with earth 7 or 8 inches thick, and defended with mats, supported with hoops.

Make a hot bed for Battersey kidney-beans, and all sorts of annuals, except African and French marigold, which may be deferr'd 10 or 20 days. About the middle of the month, upon a declining hot-bed sow colly-flower seeds; also in the natural ground pease, beans, parsley, spinach, carrots, parsnips, turnips, onions, leeks, Dutch brown lettuce, and asparagus-seeds.

Sow skerrits in light rich ground, where they may have moisture.

Plant garlick, shalots, and rockambole, for increase, in light ground.

Transplant young cabbage-plants for a crop.

Make plantations of straw-berries, rasberries, goose-berries, currants, and roses.

Elm-setts should now be gather'd from the roots of large trees, and planted in nursery-beds, and young plantations should be now provided with all sorts of forest-trees and shrubs, which are propagated from slips or layers.

Set acorns of the Ilex, cork-tree, English oak, chesnuts, and walnuts.

Sow the sameria of the elm, and bay berries, all which come up the first year.

Lay branches of several trees to take root. This is the best time to raise any thing that will grow of slips.

Prune fruit-trees and vines, for now is your season to bind, plash, nail, and dress, without danger of frosts. This is to be understood of the most tender and delicate wall-fruits not finish'd before: do this before the buds and bearers grow turgid; and yet in the nectarine and like delicate mural fruit, the later the better, notwithstanding what has been, and still is the contrary custom.

The latter end of this month is most proper to graft pears and plums of all sorts; and some likewise graft apples and cherries in the cleft, tho' others defer apples longer. The cyons cut off from the trees last month, are now to be used, without having any regard to the notion of the age of the moon.

Now, as well as in October, may be planted the espaliers of pears, plums, or apples, so useful as well as profitable in a garden; for being planted a convenient distance from a fruit wall, they are an admirable defence against blighting winds, and produce noble fruit.

Rub moss from trees after a shower of rain; scrape and cleanse them from cankers, &c. Cut and lay quicksets, and trim up palasade hedges.

Earth up the roots of uncover'd fruit-trees, and drain superfluous moisture from roots of trees. Lay bird lime for the bird called the tit, or tit-mouse, which is a destructive enemy to dwarf-pears and plums in this and the preceding month, by destroying the buds.

The beginning of this month you may sow auricula seeds in cases fill'd with light earth, and the seeds of the polyanthois in some shady border.

Transplant all sorts of flowering shrubs, which bear the weather; as roses, jessamine, hony-suckle, laburnum, lelac, syringa, spipeas, altheas, &c. You may make layers of roses, pomegranates, phillyrea, laurus tinus, and other shrubs.

Cut the Spanish jessamine within 4 inches of the stem, giving them fresh earth, likewise give fresh earth to your carnations planted out in Autumn. Towards the latter end sow lark-spurs, hollyhocks, Canterbury bells, primrose-tree, sweet-williams, annual stocks, candy-tufts, pinks, &c.

Make plantations of the lilly of the valley on the side of some shady bank. Sow orange and lemon kernels in pots; set the pots in hot-beds; the kernels are to be used as soon as taken out of the fruit. Shift such myrtles as require large pots, at the same time having off the outside fibres of their root, and if there be occasion, prune their heads pretty close. Turn and skreen Mould for the use of next month, and continue to roll gravel-walks after rain and frost.

BOOKS, &c. published in the Month of January.

THE history of executions, No. 7. Being a compleat account of the 13 malefactors executed at Tyburn for robberies in the streets and fields; 6 at Leicester and York, and two gentlemen at Dublin, pr. 4d.

The present state of the republick of letters, for Nov.

Three pamphlets examin'd, viz. observations on the writings of the Craftsman; the Sequel; and further observations.

An ode to his Majesty for the new year, by Mr Cibber.

A letter to the author of An Enquiry into the Causes of the Decay of the Dissenting Interest, &c. pr. 6d.

The political state of Great Britain for Dec.

A general history of executions for the year 1730. containing the lives, actions and dying speeches of sixty notorious malefactors executed at tyburn and elsewhere, vol. I. pr. 2s. 6d.

The story of the ordination of our first bishops in Q. Elizabeth's reign, at the Nags-head Tavern in Cheapside, thoroughly examin'd, &c. by Thomas Browne, D.D.

A Remonstrance address'd to the clergy, shewing where the charge of deism (without returning to old divinity) will necessarily terminate, pr. 1s.

The history of Periander, King of Corinth, &c. pr. 6d.

A poem in answer to a lampoon on the Cambridge ladies, pr. 6d.

Sedition and Defamation display'd, in a letter to the author of the Craftsman, pr. 1s.

Of despising young ministers; an ordination sermon at Haberdasher's-hall, Dec. 18. 1730. by W. Harris, D.D.

A defence of the measures of the present administration, pr. 6d.

Poems on several occasions, by Caleb D'anvers, Esq; pr. 1s.

Scripture history, precepts and prophecy vindicated, the 2d part of christianity not older than the first gospel promise, by Ben. And. Atkinson, pr. 1s.

An essay on moral obligation; with a view towards settling the controversy concerning moral and positive duties, &c. by Mr Chubb.

An essay on satire, particularly on the Dunciad, by Mr Walter Hart, of St Mary Hall, Oxon.

Modern history, &c. by Mr Salmon, No. LXXVIII. Vol. 13, pr. 6d.

The doctrine of innuendoes discussed, &c. being some thoughts on the treatment of the printer, &c. of the Craftsman, pr. 6d.

Winter evening tales, &c. pr. 2s. 6d.

The divine catastrophe of the kingly family of the house of Stuarts, by Sir Ed. Peyton, pr. 1s.

The new political state of Great Britain, for Dec.

The Crisis: or, impartial judgment upon public affairs, by Tho. English Esq; pr. 6d.

Considerations on the present state of affairs in Europe, particularly with regard to the number of forces in the pay of Great Britain.

Miscellaneous observations on authors, ancient and modern, No. I.

Scripture vindicated, in answer to christianity as old as the creation, the second part.

Remarks on a pamphlet, intitled, a A Defence of the present Administration, pr. 6d.

A compendious dictionary of the fabulous history of the heathen gods and heroes, &c. pr. 2s. 6d.

Periander, a tragedy, by Mr John Tracey.

The ancient history of the Carthaginians, &c. translated from the French of Mr Rollin.

The monthly chronicle for Dec.

A letter to Cleomenes King of Sparta, from Eustace Budgell, Esq; pr. bound 7s. 6d.

The Improvement of the present time, recommended in two sermons on new year's day, 1731. by John Guyse.

Whistoneutes: or, Remarks on Mr Whiston's historical memoirs of the life of Dr. Sam. Clarke, &c. 1s.

A proper reply to a late scurrilous libel, intitled, Sedition and Defamation display'd, by Caleb D'anvers, Esq; pr. 6d.

The British patriot: or a timely caveat against giving into the measures of any evil and corrupt minister, pr. 1s.

Introductio ad sapientiam: or, the art of right thinking assisted and improved, by Tho. Fuller, M.D.

The lover's miscellany, pr. 1s.

A reply to the letter to Dr Waterland.

A specimen of arbitrary power, in a speech made to the grand Signor to his Janizaries, pr. 6d.

The Lord protector's speech to the parliament, in the painted chamber at their dissolution, Jan. 22. 1654. pr. 6d.

Historia literaria, &c. No. VII.

Memoirs of the Count de Forbin, translated from the French, in two neat pocket volumes, pr. 5s. 6d.

The spend-thrift, a comedy, by Mr Mathew Draper.

A collection of occasional political pieces, in prose and verse, by Joseph Hazard, Esq;

The blessedness of those who dye in the Lord; a funeral sermon, by John Anther, pr. 6d.

The lover, a comedy, by Mr Theo. Cibber, Comedian.

A literary journal for Oct. Nov. and Dec.

A compleat history of Algiers, by J. Morgan.

The third part of an essay towards a natural history of Florida, Carolina, &c. by Mr Catesby.

A latin treatise of conic sections, analytically demonstrated, by L. Trevegan, M.A.

A vindication of the Bp of London's second pastoral letter.

A treatise of the gout, by a licentiate practitioner in physick, pr. 6d.

Histoire D'angleterre, par M. De Rapin Thoyras, No. 37. being the 3d of

An anatomical and mathematical essay on the whole animal œconomy, in 8 vol. 8vo.

The description and use of the globes and the orrery, &c. by Joseph Harris, pr. 3s 6d.

A new and correct pair of globes 15 inches diameter.

The favourite songs in the opera call'd Winceslaus, pr. 2s 6.d.

A compleat treatise of practical navigation demonstrated from its first principles, by Archibald Patoon.

PROPOSALS for printing by Subscription.

THree vols. of sermons, by the late Rev. Nathaniel Marshal, D.D. Canon of Windsor, and Chaplain to the King. Design'd by himself for the press. pr. 1 Guinea in sheets.

The new testament to be engraved in short-hand, by Mr. Weston, one Guinea.

* * *

Just publish'd.

Printed on a large, fair Character, and good Paper, in 2 Vols. 8vo. Price bound 10s.

⁂

Thirty-Nine Sermons, by (a late very Celebrated PREACHER) John Cook, A.M. Rector of the United Parishes of St. George the Martyr, and St. Mary Magdalen in Canterbury, and of Mersham in Kent, and one of the Six Preachers of the Cathedral Church of Canterbury: From the Manuscript Copy, prepar'd by himself for the press: (there being several Copies of some of the Sermons abroad in Writing, first granted at the Request of the Countess of Coventry and other persons of Distinction.) On the following Heads and Occasions, viz. Of Faith. Happiness. Coming to Christ. Vanity. Righteousness, Temperance, and Judgment to come. Cleanness mistaken. God's Omniscience. On Prayer. Of Friendship with God. The Enmity of the Devil. Resolution in Faith and Practice. Of Proving and Persevering. The Nature of Cleanness. Naaman's Cure. Of Vision, Revelation, and Repentance. Of Zeal. The Crown of Glory. The Righteous Man's Reward. The Wicked Man's Lot. Blessed are the Meek. Mercy to the Merciful. Purity in Heart. Holding fast the Faith. Godly Fear and Obedience. Covetousness. The Sabbath. Sion preferred. Of Superstition. The Difculty of Salvation. On St. Peter's Denial. Upon the Fifth of November; preach'd before the Lower House of Convocation, who requested this Sermon to be Printed.

ADVERTISEMENT.

IT has been unexceptionably advanced, that a good Abridgment of the Law is more intelligible than the Statutes at large; so a nice Model is as entertaining as the Original, and a true Specimen as satisfactory as the whole Parcel: This may serve to illustrate the Reasonableness of our present Undertaking, which in the first place is to give Monthly a View of all the Pieces of Wit, Humour, or Intelligence, daily offer'd to the Publick in the News-Papers, (which of late are so multiply'd, as to render it impossible, unless a man makes it a business, to consult them all) and in the next place we shall join therewith some other matters of Use or Amusement that will be communicated to us.

Upon calculating the Number of News-Papers, 'tis found that (besides divers written Accounts) no less than 200 Half-sheets per Month are thrown from the Press only in London, and about as many printed elsewhere in the Three Kingdoms; a considerable Part of which constantly exhibit Essays on various Subjects for Entertainment, and all the rest, occasionally oblige their Readers with matters of Public Concern, communicated to the World by Persons of Capacity thro' their Means: so that they are become the chief Channels of Amusement and Intelligence. But then being only loose Papers, uncertainly scatter'd about, it often happens, that many things deserving Attention, contained in them, are only seen by Accident, and others not sufficiently publish'd or preserved for universal Benefit and Information.

This Consideration has induced several Gentlemen to promote a Monthly Collection, to treasure up, as in a Magazine, the most remarkable Pieces on the Subjects abovemention'd, or at least impartial Abridgments thereof, as a Method much better calculated to preserve those Things that are curious, than that of transcribing.

In pursuance whereof, and the great Encouragement already given, this W o r k will be regularly continued, shall appear earlier, and contain more than any other Monthly Book of the same Price.

As all possible Care will be taken to avoid the Mistakes incident to undertakings of this kind, so the Author will think himself oblig'd to such Persons who shall give him a true state of any Transaction erroneously publish'd in the Papers, or shall please to communicate any Pieces of Wit or Entertainment proper to be inserted; directing for him at the Printer's at St. John's Gate, near Hicks's-Hall, where any Persons sending proper Orders, may have the Numbers sent them, at their first coming out, without further Trouble, whether in Town or Country. 

